Account Migration across Blockchain Shards using
Fine-tuned Lock Mechanism
Huawei Huang ∗, Yue Lin †, Zibin Zheng ∗‡
∗ SSE, Sun Yat-Sen University, China. Email: {huanghw28, zhzibin }@mail.sysu.edu.cn
† CSE, Sun Yat-Sen University, China. ‡ Corresponding author.
Abstract—Sharding is one of the most promising techniques for
improving blockchain scalability. In blockchain state sharding,
account migration across shards is crucial to low ratio of
cross-shard transactions and workload balance among shards.
Through reviewing state-of-the-art protocols proposed to recon-
figure blockchain shards via account shuffling, we find that the
account migration plays a significant role. From the literature,
we only find a related work which utilizes the lock mechanism
to realize account migration. We call this method the SOTA
Lock, in which both the target account’s state and its associated
transactions need to be locked when migrating this account
between shards, thereby causing a high makespan for the
associated transactions. To address these challenges of account
migration, we propose a dedicated Fine-tuned Lock protocol.
Unlike SOTA Lock, the proposed Fine-tuned Lock enables real-
time processing of the affected transactions during account
migration. Thus, the makespan of associated transactions can
be lowered. We implement our Fine-tuned Lock protocol on an
open-sourced blockchain testbed and deploy it in Tencent Cloud.
The experimental results show that the proposed Fine-tuned Lock
outperforms the SOTA Lock in terms of transaction makespan.
For example, the transaction makespan of our Fine-tuned Lock
achieves around 30% of transaction makespan comparing with
SOTA Lock.
Index Terms—Blockchain, Sharding, Account Migration
I. I NTRODUCTION
Sharding is a popular technique for improving blockchain
scalability while preserving the decentralization property of
blockchains [1]–[13]. The basic idea of blockchain sharding is
to divide all blockchain nodes into several groups, each called
a network shard. All blockchain shards process transactions
(TXs) in parallel. Thus, blockchain sharding is promising to
improve blockchain throughput and reduce the makespan of
transaction execution.
In state sharding , a challenge is that cross-shard TXs are
generated when a TX involves accounts’ state data stored in
different shards. Even though various solutions [6]–[9] have
been proposed to handle cross-shard TXs, the long makespan
of transaction’s confirmation and the high ratio of cross-shard
TXs remain as significant obstacles that largely affect the
throughput and scalability of a sharded blockchain.
Another challenge lies in the imbalanced TX workloads
across blockchain shards. This results in some congested
shards having a significant number of TXs queued in their
local transaction pools, while others remain idle. Fig. 1 il-
lustrates how an inappropriate account allocation can lead to
imbalanced TX workloads. This issue can be addressed by
implementing a fine-tuned account allocation mechanism.
Shard #1 Shard #2 Shard #1 Shard #2
Imbalanced TX workload Balanced TX workload
...
Account
TX
# of TXs : 7 # of TXs : 1 # of TXs : 4 # of TXs : 4
Before account migration After account migration
Fig. 1. Different account allocation solutions induce different workloads
among blockchain shards.
Motivation. To reduce the number of cross-shard TXs
while balancing workloads across shards, state-of-the-art stud-
ies [14]–[18] have paid their attention to shuffling a portion
of accounts across blockchain shards. This account shuffling
method aims to move those accounts that have frequent mutual
interactions to the same shard such that the number of cross-
shard TXs is possibly reduced. During those related SOTA
studies, only LB-Chain [18] has implemented account migra-
tion across shards by exploiting the lock mechanism (we call
SOTA Lock hereafter), which is illustrated in Fig. 2. However,
the SOTA Lock mechanism has the following two drawbacks.
Firstly, all the TXs of a specific account under migration have
to be locked and congested in the source shard of this account.
Thus, this SOTA Lock action definitely prolongs the makespan
of the TXs associated with the target account. Secondly, no
restoration solution has been proposed when migration failure
occurs (e.g., migration times out).
For the first drawback aforementioned, a strawman method
is to not lock any TXs related to the target account during
its migration. Furthermore, the source shard keeps processing
these TXs before the migration is completed. The destination
shard can also process the TXs related to the target account
under migration after receiving its associated state. However,
as the two shards are not in perfect synchronization, the source
shard may not immediately know when the migration was
finished. Thus, both shards can execute these related TXs
simultaneously. Consequently, there is a chance that both
shards deduct more tokens from the target account that exceed
its balance. Hence, this strawman method is susceptible to
vulnerabilities in terms of account security.
In summary, although the SOTA studies have realized the
significance of account migration, we have not found a prac-
tical implementation of account migration across blockchain
shards in the context of blockchain state sharding.
Challenges to implementing account migration. When
an account is no longer bonded with a shard, it needs to be
migrated to a newly designated shard. Designing a protocol
for account migration is not straightforward. Referring to the
existing account migration solutions [18]–[21], migrating an
account needs to lock both the account’s state and its all
associated TXs. This will cause a higher makespan to these
TXs. Therefore, how to mitigate the impact of an account’s
migration on its associated TXs and guarantee the security of
the blockchain system is a challenge.
To this end, we propose a fine-tuned cross-shard account
migration protocol for state sharding. Our goals are three-fold,
i.e., i) to implement a practical account migration protocol, ii)
to minimize the impact of account migration on the associated
TXs, and iii) to guarantee the liveness and consistency of a
blockchain system while performing account migration.
Our study in this paper has the following contributions.
• Originality. We devise an account migration protocol
using fine-tuned Lock mechanism, which can alleviate the
impact of account migration on its associated TXs.
• Method. To enable account migration, we have modified
the data structures of both the ledger’s state and
block. We then make a modification to the conventional
relay transaction mechanism, aiming to address the sys-
tem vulnerabilities that may arise from account migration.
• Implementation and Usefulness. Finally, we implement
our proposed protocol on a blockchain testbed and deploy
it to Tencent Cloud. Experimental results show that the
proposed protocol outperforms two other account migra-
tion protocols in terms of TX makespan.
II. R ELATED WORK
A. Blockchain Sharding
Blockchain sharding is a technique that can be used to
improve the scalability of a blockchain network by allowing
it to process more TXs concurrently. Elastico [1] is viewed as
the first sharded blockchain system. TXs are partitioned into
different shards in Elastico and thus can be processed in par-
allel. However, every shard still stores the whole state ledger.
To save storage resources, the authors of OmniLedger [6]
proposed state sharding , in which each shard is responsible
for storing and processing a subset of the ledger’s data.
A couple of other state-of-the-art state sharding protocols
have been proposed, e.g., Monoxide [9], Pyramid [22] and
BrokerChain [15].
B. Processing Cross-shard Transactions
In a state sharding blockchain system, it is inevitable that
there will be cross-shard TXs generated across shards. A
cross-shard TX is a transaction that involves two or more
shards and requires coordination among those shards. To
handle cross-shard TXs, 2-Phase Commit (2PC)-based pro-
tocols are adopted by OmniLedger [6], RapidChain [7] and
ChainSpace [8]. In addition, Monoxide [9] introduces relay
transaction mechanism to achieve the eventual atomicity of
Shard #2Shard #1
 A target account is migrated
from Shard #1 to Shard #2
①
New state of this account
 Payer TX
 Target account under migration
Old state of this account
 Blocks
Unlock phase
SOTA Lock
 Fine-tuned Lock ( Proposed )
 Payee TX
②
③
①
④
②
③
①
④
Conventional SOTA Lock mechanism
Proposed Fine-tuned Lock mechanism
All this account’s TXs are 
locked and congested here !
      A sudden surge of unlocked TXs
need to deliver !
      New state and fewer TXs are 
transmitting !
Shard #2’s chain
Shard #1’s chain
TXPayer TX:                    ,
 TXPayee TX:
 Other accounts
Fig. 2. The comparison between SOTA Lockand the proposed Fine-tuned Lock
mechanisms. 1⃝ : A migration is triggered. 2⃝ : Lock phase gets started. 3⃝ :
Sending old state of this account to Shard #2.
cross-shard TXs. In these mechanisms, the makespan of cross-
shard TXs will be higher than that of intra-shard TXs. Fur-
thermore, an excessively high proportion of cross-shard TXs
increases the complexity of the sharded blockchain system,
thereby affecting system performance, such as throughput and
transactions’ makespan.
C. Account Migration
Recently, in order to reduce the proportion of cross-shard
TXs while balancing workloads across shards, some emerging
studies are investigating shard reconfiguration. The reconfigu-
ration refers to rescheduling accounts to appropriate shards
in the account-based blockchain state sharding. There are
several studies that attempt to migrate accounts, in order to
reduce the proportion of cross-shard TXs while balancing the
workload across shards. Several representatives are reviewed
as follows. Shard Scheduler [14] designs an algorithm that
can generate recommendations for account migration based
on the interaction between accounts. An incentive mechanism
is also provided in Shard Scheduler, to motivate the miners to
follow the recommendations. BrokerChain [15] uses historical
TXs to generate a global account graph. With such a global
graph, all accounts are partitioned into appropriate shards
in each epoch using Metis [23], which is a well-known
heuristic graph-partitioning tool. Transformers [17] devises a
community-aware account partition algorithm to make a trade-
off between the ratio of cross-shard TXs and the workload
balance. However, the approaches aforementioned only focus
on determining which shards should accounts be migrated to,
without practical implementation of account migration. Since
account migration is crucial to shard reconfiguration, a prac-
tical solution of account migration is required to implement a
blockchain sharding system.
Via a thorough review of the literature, we only found a
SOTA Lock mechanism [18] was proposed to migrate accounts
across blockchain shards. In more detail, before migrating an
account to a new shard, the account’s state should be locked
at first. During the migration, no changes can be made to
this account. Thus, any TX that modifies the target account
under migration would be locked and would be migrated to
the destination shard afterwards. As a result, these TXs have
to experience a long locking latency in the source shard, which
prolongs the makespan of these TXs.
To the best of our knowledge, we have not found a study
that investigates the impact of account migration on the TXs
associated with the target accounts under migration. Compared
with the state-of-the-art SOTA Lock mechanism, our proposed
protocol enables real-time processing of a portion of those
affected TXs. Thus, it can alleviate the large queueing latency
of the TXs associated with the target account under migration.
III. P RELIMINARIES AND SYSTEM MODEL
A. Preliminaries
The proposed protocol executes on top of the account-based
transaction model. Similar to most sharding blockchains [22],
[24]–[29], we focus on state sharding. In our system, each ac-
count’s state is only managed by one shard at a time, i.e., each
shard manages a disjoint subset of all accounts. We assume
that blockchain nodes in one shard can obtain the headers of
a specific block committed in another shard. This is achieved
through on-demand queries. Thus, each blockchain node can
verify the validity of an account migrated from another
shard. As for the intra-shard consensus, our system adopts
Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT) [30] consensus.
Furthermore, we exploit the relay transaction mechanism [9]
to process cross-shard TXs.
B. Proposed Migration vs. SOTA Lock Migration
The proposed account migration method differs from the
SOTA Lock and strawman methods mentioned earlier. It only
locks the TXs that deduct money from the account (i.e., payer
TXs) during the migration process. The payee TXs , in which
the target account is payee, are not locked and can still be
processed in the source shard as other regular TXs. Thus, we
call our account migration the Fine-tuned Lock mechanism.
Before elaborating on our method in the next section, we
use Fig. 2 to compare the proposed Fine-tuned Lock method
with the SOTA Lock method. Suppose that an account is
being migrated from Shard #1 to Shard #2. According to
the conventional SOTA Lock approach, the account needs to
be locked in Shard #1 and unlocked in Shard #2 when the
migration is completed. All the TXs related to this account
cannot be processed during the account’s migration, and are
① 
②
④③
③
Source Shard
Other Shards Dest. Shard
A trusted coordinator
Acc. migration 
trigger
Fig. 3. A basic workflow of the proposed account migration protocol. 1⃝ :
Requesting for migrating a target account from Source Shard to Dest. Shard.
2⃝ : Source Shard sends the state of the target account to Dest. Shard. 3⃝ :
Dest. Shard announces that the migration of the target account has been
accomplished. 4⃝ : Source Shard sends new state and associated pending
TXs to Dest. Shard.
locked in Shard #1, too. These TXs will be sent to Shard #2
after the migration is completed (during the Unlock Phase). In
contrast, in our proposed Fine-tuned Lock method, only payer
TXs are locked in the source shard. The unlocked payee TXs
can still be processed in real time while the account is being
migrated. Once the migration is completed, a new state of the
target account together with its payer TXs are needed to deliver
to Shard #2. As a result, the impact of account migration on
the associated TXs is alleviated.
IV. D ESIGN OF ACCOUNT MIGRATION PROTOCOL
A. A Basic Workflow of Proposed Protocol
A basic workflow of the proposed account migration pro-
tocol is illustrated in Fig. 3, in which there are two types of
roles in the proposed protocol, i.e., Account Migration Trigger
and Shard.
• Account Migration Trigger. There should be a role
to make the decision for account migration. We call
it Account (Acc.) migration trigger , which is a trusted
coordinator that runs the account-partition algorithm. It
could be a trusted third party or a reference committee.
For example, in BrokerChain [15], in order to reduce the
ratio of cross-shard TXs and balance the workload across
shards, the so-called reference committee makes migra-
tion decisions by running an account-partition algorithm.
Such the reference committee is an example of the trusted
coordinator.
• Shard. Each blockchain shard maintains its own local
blockchain and stores a subset of all accounts in the
whole system. In addition to packing the regular TXs that
transfer tokens from one account to another, blockchain
nodes in each shard should also pack the TXs related to
account migration into blocks and achieve the intra-shard
consensus. Since an account is not located in a fixed shard
all the time, each shard needs to store the location of all
accounts.
We then use Fig. 3 to demonstrate the basic workflow when
migrating an account from its source shard to destination
(dest.) shard . Once the decision of migrating an account is
made by the Acc. migration trigger in step 1⃝ , it will be
sent to source shard as a special auxiliary TX (defined in
section IV-B). In step 2⃝ , when the nodes in source shard
have reached a consensus on the auxiliary TX, they send the
state of the account to dest. shard. When nodes in dest. shard
agree to accept the target account, they add the state of the
account to their local storage. Then in step 3⃝ , dest. shard
sends all other shards announcement TXs to notify that the
target account is now located at dest. shard. Finally, each shard
maps the target account to the dest. shard.
Furthermore, to keep fewer TXs related to the target account
being suspended by the migration, source shard can still
handle the TXs that deposit money to the target account (payee
TXs) when it is being migrated across shards. When receiving
the announcement from dest. shard , as shown in step 4⃝ ,
nodes in the source shard begin to send the new state of the
target account and the related pending TXs to dest. shard. The
dest. shard will then modify the state of the target account
according to the newly received state.
B. New Data Structures Defined in Our Protocol
In our protocol, the state of an account is represented by:
State = {Addr, Value, Nonce, Location},
where Addr is the address of an account, and Value rep-
resents the balance of the account. Nonce is an attribute of
the account that denotes the number of TXs initiated by that
account. Location tells where the account is located. For a
specific shard S, when accepting a move-in account, it will
modify the Location field in the account’s state to ‘ S’.
When shard S is migrating the account to shard D, shard S
modifies the Location field to ‘to D’. Once the migration is
finished, shard S modifies the Location field to ‘D’. Even
if the account is moved, shard S will not delete the state of
that account, thus ensuring the traceability of the account in
the blockchain.
In addition, in order to know which shard an account
is located at, each shard must maintain all accounts’ states
locally. However, a shard only stores the Location field of
an account in the state if the account is not managed by the
shard. Take other shards in Fig. 3 as an example, they only
store the Location of the target account under migration.
Once receiving the announcement that the account has been
migrated from its source shard to the dest. shard, other shards
modify the Location field to ‘Dest. Shard ’.
Auxiliary TXs. Auxiliary TXs are the transactions related to
migrating an account. There are four types of auxiliary TXs in
our protocol, i.e., (i) TXaux1 sent from Acc. migration trigger,
(ii) TXaux2 sent from source shard, (iii) TXann sent from dest.
shard to broadcast the latest location of the target account
under migration, and (iv) TXns sent from source shard to dest.
shard.
(i) TXaux1: When Acc. migration trigger makes a decision
for account migration, a TXaux1 is sent to the shard
where the account is located. The structure of TXaux1
is represented as follows:
TXaux1 = {Addr, Source, Dest., τ},
where field Addr is the address of the account to be
migrated, Source indicates the shard that the account
is currently located at, and field Dest. denotes the shard
that the account is designated to. The field τ is the time
limit for the migration operation. If the migration is not
completed within time τ, the migration is considered to
be failed.
(ii) TXaux2: After reaching consensus on TXaux1, the source
shard will generate a TXaux2 and send it to the dest.
shard. The structure of TXaux2 is defined as:
TXaux2 = {TXaux1, State, H, MPaux1, MPstate},
where State denotes the state of the account under
migration and H refers to the height of the block on
source shard’s chain that stores TXaux1. MPaux1 is the
Merkle Proof to prove that TXaux1 is stored in block H,
and MPstate proves the state of the account stored in the
block.
(iii) TXann: Once nodes in dest. shard have reached a con-
sensus on the migration and accept the move-in account,
the dest. shard will broadcast TXann messages to all
other shards. The purpose of TXann is to let all shards
map the target account to dest. shard. The structure of
TXann is illustrated as follows:
TXann = {TXaux2, State, H, MPaux2, MPstate},
where State denotes the target account’s state stored in
dest. shard and H refers to the height of the block that
stores TXaux2. MPaux2 and MPstate are corresponding
Merkle Proofs to prove the existence of TXaux2 and
State in block H, respectively.
(iv) TXns: Upon reaching consensus on the TXann, source
shard sends TXns to dest. shard. TXns includes the new
state of the account stored in source shard. The structure
of TXns is designed as follows:
TXns = {TXann, NewState, H, MPann, MPnewstate},
where NewState is the newest state of the target
account stored in source shard and H refers to the height
of the block that stores TXann. MPann and MPnewstate are
corresponding Merkle Proofs of TXann and NewState
in block H, respectively.
Block. Fig. 4 shows the modified data structure of a block
in our protocol. In addition to regular TXs, the block body
also contains auxiliary TXs . Thus, we design a new Merkle
Patricia Trie (MPT) [31] for indexing auxiliary TXs.
C. The Proposed Account Migration Protocol
The aim of our protocol is to prevent the TXs associ-
ated with the target account from being affected by the
migration as much as possible. According to the SOTA Lock
Block Header
TX Root
State Root
Auxiliary TX Root
...
MPT for Account States
Merkle Root
MPT for Auxiliary TXs
Merkle Root
MPT for Regular TXs
Merkle Root
Auxiliary TX
Account State
Address
Value Location
Nonce
Regular TX
Fig. 4. Modified block’s structure in the proposed protocol. Note that, the
parts highlighted in dark shadows represent the newly added components.
mechanism [18], no associated TXs can be processed at all,
thereby prolonging the makespan of these TXs. Differently,
our proposed protocol allows the execution of payee TXs even
when the target account is being migrated. Fig. 5 shows the
four stages of migrating an account in our protocol.
Stage 1. A TXaux1, which aims to migrate an account
to dest. shard , is sent to source shard and is waiting to be
committed. The TXaux1 will be put into the auxiliary pool of
source shard. Auxiliary pool is similar to mempool, but is used
to store pending auxiliary TXs, while mempool stores pending
regular TXs. After achieving consensus on TXaux1, source
shard modifies the Location field to ‘T o Dest. Shard’ in the
state of the target account. Source shard will not directly map
the account to dest. shard until the migration is successful.
Then, a TXaux2 is sent to dest. shard. Meanwhile, source shard
will create a new locking pool to store pending payer TXs
initiated by the target account. However, payee TXs can still
be processed in source shard until the migration is completed.
Stage 2. Similar to TXaux1, TXaux2 will be waiting in
the auxiliary pool of dest. shard . Before packing it into a
block, dest. shard will check the validity of TXaux2 using the
following three-step verification. Firstly, dest. shard checks if
the time limit is exceeded. Secondly, dest. shard uses MPaux1
to check whether TXaux1 is stored in the block H of source
shard’s blockchain. Finally,dest. shard verifies the state of the
target account under migration by monitoring the Location
field and then uses MPstate to verify its existence in the block
H. If all validations are correct, dest. shard will commit the
TXaux2 and then modify the Location field in the state of
the account to ‘Dest. Shard ’. Afterward, dest. shard will send
an announcement TXann to all shards notifying that the target
account is now located at dest. shard, along with the Merkle
Proof to demonstrate that the migration has been committed.
From this moment on, dest. shard unlocks the account and
begins to process any TXs related to the target account.
Furthermore, dest. shard should record the account’s balance
value1 at this time, which will be used in Stage 4 . After
broadcasting TXann to all shards, dest. shard can process any
TXs related to the target account. Those TXs newly initiated
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4
Source shard’s chain
Dest. shard’s chain
①
②
 Payer TX  Block
  Fine-tuned Lock
Target account under migration New state of this account
TXaux1 TXaux2
   Announce a successful migration
③
⑤
④
⑥
Unlock
Fig. 5. A successful account migration while applying our protocol. 1⃝ : A
migration request TXaux1 is sent to Source Shard. 2⃝ : Source Shard sends
TXaux2 that includes state of the target account to Dest. Shard. 3⃝ : Source
Shard locks the target account and its associated payer TXs. 4⃝ : Dest. Shard
accepts and unlocks the target account. 5⃝ : Dest. Shard announces to all
other shards about this successful migration. 6⃝ : Source Shard sends the
new state of the target account together with its associated payer TXs.
by the target account will be routed to and processed by dest.
shard.
Stage 3. After receiving the announcement from dest. shard,
source shard will run a consensus on the announcement.
Subsequently, source shard will modify the Location field
of the account’s state to ‘ Dest. Shard ’, which means that
source shard will no longer process any TXs related to the
target account. Finally, source shard sends TXns that includes
the newest state of the account to dest. shard, along with all
payer TXs pending in the locking pool.
Stage 4. Once reaching consensus on the newest state of the
target account from source shard, dest. shard firstly records the
balance value2 and calculates the change of target account’s
balance in source shard by ∆ = value2 − value1. Dest. shard
will add ∆ to the balance in the account’s state stored in dest.
shard. The pending TXs sent along with the newest state will
be put into the mempool of dest. shard.
D. Handling Two Types of Migration Failures
During the account migration, our protocol may experience
the following two types of failures. Type 1: The migration
window τ expires in both source and destination shards. Type
2: The destination shard successfully verifies the account
migration but the source shard does not perceive it due to
the migration window τ expires.
Fig. 6 illustrates how the migration failure Type 1 occurs.
When the dest. shard fails to verify the target account via
interpreting TXaux2, dest. shard will abort the target account
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3
①
②
④ Verification fails
③ ⑥
τ : Migration Window
⑤
⑤
Fig. 6. Demonstration of type 1 migration failure. 4⃝ : Dest. Shard fails to
verify the target account and replies nothing. 5⃝ : The migration of the target
account is found timing out through interpreting TXaux1 and TXaux2. 6⃝ :
Source Shard unlocks the target account and the associated payer TXs.
 Payer TX  Block
  Fine-tuned Lock
 Target account under migration
   Announce a successful migration
Migration times out
①
③
②
④
 Unlock
Source
Shard
Dest.
Shard
τ : Migration Window
Target 
account is 
duplicated in
both shards !
Fig. 7. Demonstration of type 2 failure, in which the target account is
duplicated in both source and dest. shards.
and reply nothing to source shard. Moreover, if source shard
has not received the announcement within the migration win-
dow τ, the migration is regarded as failed. Then, dest. shard
will not pack TXaux2 into a block. Instead, source shard will
initiate a query to dest. shard to check if the migration is
successful. Dest. shard will reply with TXann if the migration
is successful. Otherwise, it will respond with a failure message
along with proof showing not accepting the target account.
When receiving a failure message, source shard will unlock
the target account by changing the Location field in the
account’s state from ‘T o Dest. Shard’ back to ‘Source Shard’.
Also, the pending TXs in the locking pool will be put back
into the mempool.
Fig. 7 demonstrates Type 2 failure, in which TXann reaches
source shard at a late time due to the propagation delay. As a
result, the migration window τ expires. When τ is perceived
expired, source shard should not directly unlock the target
account. Otherwise, it will result in a wrong state in the source
shard, because the target account will be duplicated in both
shards. As a restoration strategy, source shard will initiate a
new inquiry from the dest. shard to figure out whether the
account migration is successful or not, until the correct result
is perceived by the source shard.
E. Defending against Replay Attacks
We adopt the relay transaction mechanism [9] to handle
cross-shard TXs (i.e., the TXs that the payer and payee
locate at different shards). In the original relay transaction
mechanism, when the payer’s shard is handling a cross-shard
TX (say CTX), nodes in the shard execute the deduction
operation and then generate a relay TX. The relay TX will
be sent to the payee’s shard that manages the payee’s account,
with the Merkle Proof that CTX has been committed in the
payer’s shard. Payee’s shard will execute the deposit operation
once the relay TX is committed in the shard. However, in the
system that enables account migration, if the payee’s account
is being migrated, a malicious node in the payer’s shard can
launch an attack by sending the relay TX to both the source
and dest. shards. This type of attack is called replay attack .
How a replay attack happens. We use Fig. 8 to illustrate
this type of replay attack. During the period when dest. shard
has sent an announcement but source shard has not received
 Payer TX
  Fine-tuned Lock
Target account under migration
Payee TX (in fact a CTX)    Malicious node
 Unlock
x
Source
Shard
Payer’s
Shard
Dest.
Shard
Lock target account and its 
payer TXs on Source Shard
Unlock target account 
on Dest. Shard
Block
x
=      + x
③
Block
x
=      + x
③
x②
x②Block
x
①
 =      - x
Sending via relay TX 
: Payer
Fig. 8. Demonstration of Replay Attack. 1⃝ : A payee TX (actually a cross-
shard TX) is packed in a block of Payer’s Shard. 2⃝ : A malicious node in
Payer’s Shard sends two relay TXs ( TXrelay) to both Source Shard and Dest.
Shard. 3⃝ : Both shards deposit a volume x of tokens to the target account.
it, both of them can execute the deposit operation to the target
account. If a malicious node from the payer’s shard sends relay
TXs to both shards, the deposit operation will be executed
twice. Thus, this type of replay attack inflates the blockchain
system because an extra volume of tokens is generated by the
malicious relay TXs.
How to deal with replay attacks. Such replay attack can be
prevented by re-designing the structure of relay TX properly.
We devise the structure as follows:
TXrelay = {CTX, Staterec, H, MPctx, MPrec},
in which Staterec and MPrec are the new attributes that are
different from the original data structure of TXrelay. Staterec
is the payee’s state stored in the payer’s shard (only the
Location field has a filled value), H denotes the height
of the block that commits CTX, MPctx and MPrec represent
the Merkle Proofs that prove CTX and the state of the payee
account in that block, respectively.
Note that, nodes in the payer’s shard modify theLocation
of the payee to ‘ Dest. Shard ’ when obtaining an announce-
ment from dest. shard. Thus, if source shard receives the relay
TX sent from payer’s shard, the relay TX will be aborted since
the Location field is not ‘Source Shard ’.
V. P ROPERTY ANALYSIS OF THE PROPOSED PROTOCOL
Since account migration needs to be recorded on the
blockchain, our proposed protocol needs to guarantee the prop-
erties of liveness and consistency [32], [33]. The definitions for
these two properties of account migration are given as follows.
Definition 1. (Migration Liveness.) Every account migration
will eventually be handled following either the successful
procedure or the failure handling.
Definition 2. (Eventual Consistency of Migration.) For any
account under migration, all shards will finally have the
identical field of Location for the target account, whether
the migration is successful or not.
Theorem 1. As long as the source and the dest. shards are not
corrupted by malicious nodes, the proposed Fine-tuned Lock
mechanism achieves the liveness property (Definition 1).
Proof. When dest. shard verifies the TXaux2 sent from source
shard, if the TXaux2 is legal and has not timed out, as long
as dest. shard is not corrupted by malicious nodes, it will
broadcast announcements, notifying all shards that the migra-
tion has been successful. On the other hand, if the TXaux2
has timed out when dest. shard verifies it, dest. shard will not
accept it and will not do anything. When source shard receives
no announcement within the limited time or a failure message
from dest. shard, if source shard is not corrupted by malicious
nodes, it will consider the migration failed and unlock the
target account. In summary, every account migration will be
eventually handled following either the successful or failed
handling. Thus, Theorem 1 concludes.
Theorem 2. As long as the source and the dest. shards are not
corrupted by malicious nodes, the proposed Fine-tuned Lock
mechanism achieves the property of Eventual Consistency
(Definition 2).
Proof. For a TXaux2, if not committed by dest. shard due
to illegality or timeout reasons, the corresponding announce-
ments will not be sent to any other shard. Even if a malicious
node in dest. shard sends announcements to other shards,
since there is no valid Merkle Proofs to prove that TXaux2 is
committed, other shards will ignore the announcement. When
the migration times out, source shard will modify the field
Location of the target account back to ‘ Source Shard ’,
as long as the shard is not corrupted by malicious nodes.
As a result, all shards still hold the view that the account is
managed by source shard. On the other hand, if the TXaux2 is
committed by dest. shard, as long as the shard is not corrupted
by malicious nodes, there will be honest nodes sending valid
announcements to other shards. Finally, all shards will map
the account to dest. shard . In summary, all shards have the
identical field of Location for the target account.
Remark 1. Theorems 1 and 2 imply that to guarantee the
Liveness (Definition 1) and Eventual Consistency (Definition
2), neither source shard nor dest. shard should be corrupted by
malicious nodes. This requires that the proportion of malicious
nodes inside source shard and dest. shard cannot exceed 1/3,
since our protocol adopts PBFT as the intra-shard consensus.
Next, we calculate the probability that both source shard
and dest. shard are secure.
Theorem 3. Given a number O ∈ N+ of blockchain nodes,
with M ∈ N+ being malicious nodes, each shard consisting
of n ∈ N+ (n < O ) nodes, and all shards adopting PBFT as
their intra-shard consensus, the probability that both source
and dest. shards are not corrupted by malicious nodes is:
Malicious nodeHonest node
M
O
...
Shard #1
n/3
Shard #S
n
n
Fig. 9. Allocating a number O of blockchain nodes ( M nodes are malicious)
to S shards randomly and uniformly. Each shard has a number n of nodes.
P = 1 − 2 ×
min{n,M }X
m=⌊n/3⌋+1
 M
m
 O−M
n−m

 O
n

+
min{n,M }X
ms=⌊n/3⌋+1
min{n,M −ms}X
md=⌊n/3⌋+1
  n
ms
  n
md
  O−2n
M −ms−md

  O
M
 .
(1)
Proof. We present our proof using Fig. 9. Firstly, the probabil-
ity that the number m of malicious nodes in a shard exceeds
n/3 can be calculated as:
P (m>⌊n/3⌋) =
min{n,M }X
m=⌊n/3⌋+1
 M
m
 O−M
n−m

 O
n
 . (2)
Then, denoting ms ∈ N+ and md ∈ N+ as the number of
malicious nodes in source shard and dest. shard respectively,
the probability that both source shard and dest. shard are
secure can be calculated as:
P = 1 − [2 · P (m>⌊n/3⌋) − P (ms, md>⌊n/3⌋)], (3)
where P (ms, md>⌊n/3⌋) is the probability that the propor-
tions of malicious nodes in source and dest. shards both exceed
1/3.
According to [34], the process of assigning nodes to each
shard is actually a sampling process without replacement.
Therefore, when there are already n nodes in source shard, and
ms of them are malicious nodes, the nodes assigned to dest.
shard can only be n nodes out of the remaining O − n nodes,
among which the malicious nodes can only be md nodes
from the remaining M − ms malicious nodes. Therefore, the
probability that there are ms malicious nodes in source shard
and md malicious nodes in dest. shard can be represented as:
P (ms, md) =
  M
ms
 O−M
n−ms

 O
n
 ·
 M −ms
md
 O−n−(M −ms)
n−md

 O−n
n

=
 n
ms
 n
md
 O − 2n
M − ms − md

/
 O
M

.
(4)
Thus, the probability that the proportion of malicious nodes
in source shard and dest. shard both exceed 1/3 is:
P (ms, md>⌊n/3⌋) =
min{n,M }X
ms=⌊n/3⌋+1
min{n,M −ms}X
md=⌊n/3⌋+1
P (ms, md)
=
min{n,M }X
ms=⌊n/3⌋+1
min{n,M −ms}X
md=⌊n/3⌋+1
  n
ms
  n
md
  O−2n
M −ms−md

  O
M
 .
(5)
Finally, taking Eq. (5) in Eq. (3), Theorem 3 concludes.
Remark 2. It can be seen from Eq. (1) that, when the total
[9k,2] [15k,4] [21k,6] [21k,8]
[# of accounts migrated, # of shards]
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0Ratio of payee TXs
Payee TX
(a) # of locked payee TXs / # of
packed TXs in SOTA-Lock migration
(b) Makespan affected by SOTA Lock
[9k,2] [15k,4] [21k,6] [21k,8]
[# of accounts migrated, # of shards]
0
1k
2k
3k
4k
5kMakespan (sec.)
Fine-tuned lock [proposed]
Relay lock [NSDI'19]
SOTA lock [TPDS'23] (c) The makespan of payee TXs
[9k,2] [15k,4] [21k,6] [21k,8]
[# of accounts migrated, # of shards]
0
1k
2k
3k
4k
5kLatency (sec.)
Queueing in source shard
Queueing in dest. shard
Locking Fine-tuned lock
Relay lock [NSDI'19]
SOTA lock [TPDS'23] (d) Latency breakdown of payee TXs
Fig. 10. Multiple metrics of payee TXs under various # of shards. Note that in (b), ρ is a ratio between two terms ( θ1 and θ2), θ1 is the makespan of locked
payee TXs, and θ2 is the makespan of these TXs if they were not locked.
number of nodes O and the number of malicious nodes M are
fixed, setting the number n of nodes in each shard reasonably
can ensure the security of source shard and dest. shard with
a high probability. For example, when O=1000, M=150 and
n=100, the probability P is over 99.9999%.
VI. P ERFORMANCE EVALUATION
To facilitate our experiments, we implemented the pro-
posed account migration protocol on top of an open-sourced
blockchain testbed named BlockEmulator [35]. The funda-
mental functionalities of BlockEmulator include: i) it offers
various customized consensus protocols; ii) it allows clients
to import historical TXs into the testbed; iii) it supports built-
in blockchain sharding; and iv) it also provides multiple-
metric measurement capabilities, such as recording blockchain
throughput, TX makespan, and other crucial performance
indicators of a blockchain sharding system. We then evaluate
the proposed account migration protocol as well as two
other locking mechanisms using BlockEmulator. The proposed
protocol is implemented in GO with 5000+ lines of code.
A. Experiment Settings
Datasets. We collect the first 500 thousand TXs from
Ethereum’s historical data [31]. Every time 100,000 transac-
tions are confirmed, a round of account migration is performed
by invoking algorithm CLPA [17].
Transaction processing. Each shard block yielded by
BlockEmulator can pack up to 500 TXs (including regular and
auxiliary TXs). The number budget of auxiliary TXs in a block
is set to 300 if not specified otherwise. In our experiments, a
client is exploited to continuously feed sequential historical
Ethereum TXs to the blockchain system at a specific rate.
TXs will be injected into the shard where the payer of the
TXs locates ( i.e., the payer’s shard). Each shard node queues
the arrived TXs according to the sequence of their arrival.
Baselines. In addition to the state-of-the-art lock mechanism
(abbr. as SOTA Lock) proposed in LB-Chain [18], we also im-
plement another lock mechanism called Relay Lock, inspired
by the relay transaction mechanism proposed in Monoxide [9].
In Relay Lock mechanism, payee TX also needs to be locked
when the payee account is under migration. However, this TX
can be locked after the deduction operation is performed on
the payer, if the payer of the TX is not under migration.
Deploying our protocol and BlockEmulator in Tencent
Cloud. The number of blockchain shards is set to 2 ∼ 8 and
each shard has 4 blockchain nodes. PBFT is adopted as the
intra-shard consensus. We run our protocol in BlockEmulator,
which runs in 32 virtual machine nodes rented from Tencent
Cloud. Each virtual machine is deployed with a blockchain
node, which is equipped with 16 CPU cores (Intel Xeon
Cascade Lake 8255C) and 32 GB memory. The network
bandwidth is set to 20 Mbps.
B. The Effect of Account Migration on Payee TXs
We first evaluate the effect of account migration on payee
TXs under various # of migration accounts and the # of shards.
The TX arrival rate ranges from 200 ∼ 800 transactions per
second. In different configurations, the number of accounts
required to migrate also varies based on the CLPA result. As
observed in Fig. 10(a), during SOTA-Lock migration, the ratio
of the number of locked payee TXs divided by the number
of packed TXs increases with the number of shards. This
observation implies that a larger number of shards induces
more accounts that need to be migrated at each migration.
Thus, the ratio of locked payee TXs also increases.
Fig. 10(b) demonstrates to what degree the makespan of
payee TXs is prolonged when using SOTA Lock mecha-
nism [18]. Here, ρ refers to the ratio of the makespan for
locked payee TXs divided by the makespan of these TXs if
they were not locked. It can be observed that regardless of
the number of shards, the majority of TXs have a ratio ρ
lower than 5. However, as the number of shards increases, the
peak value of ρ also increases. When the shard number is 8,
the peak value of ρ can exceed 600. The above observation
shows that locking payee TXs has a significant impact on the
TX makespan.
Fig. 10(c) shows the makespan of payee TXs using three
lock mechanisms, respectively. The makespan of payee TXs
decreases as the number of shards increases. Nonetheless,
among the three mechanisms, the makespan of payee TXs in
Fine-tuned Lock method remains the shortest. The makespan
in other methods contains not only the period when the payee
TXs are locked but also includes the queueing time in the dest.
shard of target accounts under migration.
To better understand all latency terms in the entire makespan
of payee TXs, Fig. 10(d) shows the breakdown of the makespan
of payee TXs. We can observe that payee TXs are not locked
in Fine-tuned Lock method, thus they are quickly processed
in source shard . Furthermore, even in the remaining two
methods, these TXs are locked for a relatively short duration,
1k 2k 3k
System running time (sec.)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300Throughput (TPS)
η=100
η=400
η=200
η=500
η=300
(a) TPS of all time
800 960 1120
System running time (sec.)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300Throughput (TPS) Convergence
η=100
η=400
η=200
η=500
η=300 (b) TPS around the first migration
100 200 300 400
Number budget of Auxiliary TXs
0
1k
2k
3kMakespan (sec.)
Fine-tuned lock [proposed]
Relay lock [NSDI'19]
SOTA lock [TPDS'23] (c) The makespan of payee TXs
Fig. 11. System throughput and the makespan of payee TXs while setting different number budgets (denoted by η) for storing Auxiliary TXs in a block.
and the main factor contributing to the increased makespan is
the queuing time in dest. shard. Therefore, if the mempool of
dest. shard is filled with too many TXs, payee TXs will wait
for a long time after being unlocked when applying Relay Lock
and SOTA Lock methods.
C. The Number Budget of Auxiliary TXs in A Block
To examine the impact of the number budget (denoted by
η) for storing auxiliary TXs in a block on the performance
of the sharded blockchain, we vary η from 100 to 500. The
number of shards and TX arrival rate are set to 4 and 200 TXs
per second, respectively.
Fig. 11(a) shows the real-time throughput (TPS) of the
blockchain system. The TPS declines at each migration as the
auxiliary TXs in the block compete for the available space with
regular TXs. As observed, a higher value of η brings a lower
real-time TPS during the account’s migration. When η = 500,
the TPS degrades to 0. Thereby, to prevent the system’s TPS
from significantly decreasing during account migration, it is
suggested not to set an excessively high number budget η.
On the other hand, the number budget η should not be
set too low. Fig. 11(b) illustrates the zoomed-in TPS around
the first migration. It is clear to see that a lower value of η
requires a longer system running time to achieve the converged
maximum system TPS. This is because a low η indicates the
space budget in a block that can be used to store auxiliary
TXs is small. Thus, the system needs more blocks to pack
all the auxiliary TXs associated with the target account when
η is set low. This means the system needs more running
time to accomplish the migration of the target account. When
η is set to 100, it takes 296 seconds to complete account
migration. When η is set to 500, the system completes the
account migration at the 920th second. Furthermore, it can
be seen in Fig. 11(c) that the makespan of payee TXs does
not vary significantly with changes of η. The Fine-tuned
Lock mechanism still outperforms the other two mechanisms.
Therefore, to strive for a balance between the system’s TPS
during account migration and the time spent on the account
migration, it is suggested to set η to a moderate value. For
example, η is set to 300 by default in our implementation.
D. Data Size of TX relay vs the # of Accounts
Finally, we study the data size of the modified TXrelay,
since the data size of all TXrelay determines the consumption
of network bandwidth. Referring to section IV-E, the modified
0 70k 140k 210k 280k 350k
# of accounts in state tree
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0Size of all TXrelay (MB)
# of TXrelay=500
# of TXrelay=300
# of TXrelay=100
(a) Data size of all TXrelay
0 70k 140k 210k 280k 350k
# of accounts in state tree
0
4
8
12
16# of tree nodes
Maximized proof size
Avg. proof size
Minimized proof size (b) Size of Merkle Proof
Fig. 12. Performance while varying the # of accounts in the state tree. Here,
the size of Merkle Proof refers to the number of tree nodes in a given proof.
TXrelay includes two additional attributes, i.e., the payee’s
state Staterec and the corresponding Merkle Proof MPrec.
Thus, we are curious about whether the total size of all TXrelay
increases substantially or not while the account number grows.
By fixing the capacity of a block to 500 transactions, we
carried out 3 groups of evaluation while increasing the number
of accounts from 0 to 350 thousand. The zero account number
represents that TXrelay is not modified. Fig. 12(a) shows that
the size of modified TXrelay indeed increases following the
growing number of accounts but quickly converges when the
number of accounts exceeds 100 thousand. We use the results
demonstrated in 12(b) to explain the observation from Fig.
12(a). When the number of accounts increases, the size of
Merkle Proof (measured by the number of state tree nodes
in the proof) also converges to 5 and 6 tree nodes in the
categories of minimized proof size and the average proof size,
respectively. Therefore, as the number of accounts increases,
the data size of TXrelay does not grow significantly.
VII. C ONCLUSION
This paper proposes a Fine-tuned Lock account migration
protocol for blockchain sharding, aiming to mitigate the impact
of account migration on associated TXs. In the proposed
protocol, we define new data structures of the account’s state
and the block. Then, we propose a Fine-tuned Lock mechanism
to migrate an account while guaranteeing the consistency and
liveness of a blockchain system. Furthermore, we re-design
the relay transaction to cope with the well-known replay
attack during the account migration. We finally implement our
protocol on an open-sourced blockchain testbed and deploy it
in the Tencent cloud. The experimental results demonstrate
that the proposed protocol outperforms the other two lock
mechanisms in terms of TX makespan.
REFERENCES
[1] L. Luu, V . Narayanan, C. Zheng, K. Baweja, S. Gilbert, and P. Saxena,
“A Secure Sharding Protocol For Open Blockchains,” in Proc. of
ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security
(CCS’16), 2016, pp. 17–30.
[2] L. N. Nguyen, T. D. Nguyen, T. N. Dinh, and M. T. Thai, “Optchain:
optimal transactions placement for scalable blockchain sharding,” in
Proc. of IEEE 39th International Conference on Distributed Computing
Systems (ICDCS’19), 2019, pp. 525–535.
[3] H. Huang, Z. Huang, X. Peng, Z. Zheng, and S. Guo, “MVCOM:
Scheduling Most Valuable Committees for the Large-Scale Sharded
Blockchain,” in Proc. of IEEE 41st International Conference on Dis-
tributed Computing Systems (ICDCS’21), 2021, pp. 629–639.
[4] B. David, B. Magri, C. Matt, J. B. Nielsen, and D. Tschudi, “Gear-
box: Optimal-size shard committees by leveraging the safety-liveness
dichotomy,” in Proc. of ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security (CCS’22), 2022, pp. 683–696.
[5] J. Zhang, Z. Hong, X. Qiu, Y . Zhan, and W. Chen, “Skychain: A deep
reinforcement learning-empowered dynamic blockchain sharding sys-
tem,” in Proc. of 49th International Conference on Parallel Processing
(ICPP’20), 2020, pp. 1–11.
[6] E. Kokoris-Kogias, P. Jovanovic, L. Gasser, N. Gailly, E. Syta, and
B. Ford, “Omniledger: A secure, scale-out, decentralized ledger via
sharding,” in Proc. of IEEE 39th Symposium on Security and Privacy
(SP’18), 2018, pp. 583–598.
[7] M. Zamani, M. Movahedi, and M. Raykova, “Rapidchain: Scaling
blockchain via full sharding,” in Proc. of ACM SIGSAC Conference on
Computer and Communications Security (CCS’18) , 2018, pp. 931–948.
[8] M. Al-Bassam, A. Sonnino, S. Bano, D. Hrycyszyn, and G. Danezis,
“Chainspace: A sharded smart contracts platform,” in Proc. of Network
and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS’18) , 2018.
[9] J. Wang and H. Wang, “Monoxide: Scale out blockchains with asyn-
chronous consensus zones,” in Proc. of 16th USENIX Symposium on
Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI’19) , 2019, pp.
95–112.
[10] H. Dang, T. T. A. Dinh, D. Loghin, E.-C. Chang, Q. Lin, and B. C.
Ooi, “Towards scaling blockchain systems via sharding,” in Proc. of
International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD’19), 2019,
pp. 123–140.
[11] M. Li, Y . Lin, J. Zhang, and W. Wang, “Jenga: Orchestrating smart
contracts in sharding-based blockchain for efficient processing,” in
Proc. of IEEE 42nd International Conference on Distributed Computing
Systems (ICDCS’22), 2022, pp. 133–143.
[12] Y . Liu, J. Liu, Q. Wu, H. Yu, Y . Hei, and Z. Zhou, “Sshc: A secure
and scalable hybrid consensus protocol for sharding blockchains with
a formal security framework,” IEEE Transactions on Dependable and
Secure Computing, vol. 19, no. 3, pp. 2070–2088, 2022.
[13] S. Li, M. Yu, C.-S. Yang, A. S. Avestimehr, S. Kannan, and P. Viswanath,
“Polyshard: Coded sharding achieves linearly scaling efficiency and
security simultaneously,” IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics
and Security, vol. 16, pp. 249–261, 2020.
[14] M. Kr ´ol, O. Ascigil, S. Rene, A. Sonnino, M. Al-Bassam, and E. Rivi`ere,
“Shard scheduler: object placement and migration in sharded account-
based blockchains,” in Proc. of ACM Conference on Advances in
Financial Technologies (AFT’21), 2021, pp. 43–56.
[15] H. Huang, X. Peng, J. Zhan, S. Zhang, Y . Lin, Z. Zheng, and S. Guo,
“Brokerchain: A cross-shard blockchain protocol for account/balance-
based state sharding,” in Proc. of IEEE 41st International Conference
on Computer Communications (INFOCOM’22) , 2022, pp. 1968–1977.
[16] C. Chen, Q. Ma, X. Chen, and J. Huang, “User distributions in shard-
based blockchain network: Queueing modeling, game analysis, and
protocol design,” in Proc. of 22nd International Symposium on Theory,
Algorithmic Foundations, and Protocol Design for Mobile Networks and
Mobile Computing (MobiHoc’21), 2021, pp. 221–230.
[17] C. Li, H. Huang, Y . Zhao, X. Peng, R. Yang, Z. Zheng, and S. Guo,
“Achieving scalability and load balance across blockchain shards for
state sharding,” in Proc. of 41st International Symposium on Reliable
Distributed Systems (SRDS’22). IEEE, 2022, pp. 284–294.
[18] M. Li, W. Wang, and J. Zhang, “Lb-chain: Load-balanced and low-
latency blockchain sharding via account migration,” IEEE Transactions
on Parallel and Distributed Systems , 2023.
[19] E. Fynn, A. Bessani, and F. Pedone, “Smart contracts on the move,” in
Proc. of 50th Annual IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Depend-
able Systems and Networks (DSN’20) , 2020, pp. 233–244.
[20] “Hyperledger cactus whitepaper.” [Online]. Available: https://github.
com/hyperledger/cactus/blob/main/whitepaper/whitepaper.md
[21] M. Sigwart, P. Frauenthaler, C. Spanring, M. Sober, and S. Schulte,
“Decentralized cross-blockchain asset transfers,” in Proc. of 3rd In-
ternational Conference on Blockchain Computing and Applications
(BCCA’21). IEEE, 2021, pp. 34–41.
[22] Z. Hong, S. Guo, E. Zhou, J. Zhang, W. Chen, J. Liang, J. Zhang, and
A. Zomaya, “Prophet: Conflict-free sharding blockchain via byzantine-
tolerant deterministic ordering,” in Proc. of IEEE 42nd International
Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM’23) , 2023.
[23] G. Karypis and V . Kumar, “A fast and high quality multilevel scheme
for partitioning irregular graphs,” SIAM Journal on scientific Computing,
vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 359–392, 1998.
[24] Y . Tao, B. Li, J. Jiang, H. C. Ng, C. Wang, and B. Li, “On sharding open
blockchains with smart contracts,” in Proc. of IEEE 36th International
Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE’20) , 2020, pp. 1357–1368.
[25] X. Qi, “S-store: A scalable data store towards permissioned blockchain
sharding,” in Proc. of IEEE 41st International Conference on Computer
Communications (INFOCOM’22), 2022, pp. 1978–1987.
[26] P. Zheng, Q. Xu, Z. Zheng, Z. Zhou, Y . Yan, and H. Zhang, “Meepo:
Sharded consortium blockchain,” in Proc. of IEEE 37th International
Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE’21) , 2021, pp. 1847–1852.
[27] Y . Xu, T. Slaats, and B. D ¨udder, “Poster: Unanimous-majority-pushing
blockchain sharding throughput to its limit,” in Proc. of ACM SIGSAC
Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS’22), 2022,
pp. 3495–3497.
[28] Z. Cai, J. Liang, W. Chen, Z. Hong, H.-N. Dai, J. Zhang, and Z. Zheng,
“Benzene: Scaling blockchain with cooperation-based sharding,” IEEE
Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems , vol. 34, no. 2, pp.
639–654, 2022.
[29] M. J. Amiri, D. Agrawal, and A. El Abbadi, “Sharper: Sharding per-
missioned blockchains over network clusters,” in Proc. of International
Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD’21) , 2021, pp. 76–88.
[30] M. Castro, B. Liskov et al. , “Practical byzantine fault tolerance,”
in Proc. of USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and
Implementation (OSDI’99), 1999, pp. 173–186.
[31] G. Wood et al., “Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transac-
tion ledger,” Ethereum project yellow paper , pp. 1–32, 2014.
[32] J. Garay, A. Kiayias, and N. Leonardos, “The bitcoin backbone protocol:
Analysis and applications,” in Proc. of Annual International Conference
on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques (EURO-
CRYPT’15). Springer, 2015, pp. 281–310.
[33] R. Pass, L. Seeman, and A. Shelat, “Analysis of the blockchain protocol
in asynchronous networks,” in Proc. of Annual International Conference
on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques (EURO-
CRYPT’17). Springer, 2017, pp. 643–673.
[34] A. Hafid, A. S. Hafid, and M. Samih, “A tractable probabilistic approach
to analyze sybil attacks in sharding-based blockchain protocols,” IEEE
Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computing, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 126–
136, 2023.
[35] H. Huang, G. Ye, Q. Chen, Z. Yin, X. Luo, J. Lin, T. Li, Q. Yang,
and Z. Zheng, “Blockemulator: An emulator enabling to test blockchain
sharding protocols,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.03612 , 2023.
