MVSS: Blockchain Cross-shard Account Migration
Based on Multi-version State Synchronization
1st Weihan Wang
Tianjin International Engineering Institute
Tianjin University
Tianjin, China
weihan wang@tju.edu.cn
2nd Xiulong Liu
College of Intelligence and Computing
Tianjin University
Tianjin, China
xiulong liu@tju.edu.cn
3rd Liyuan Ma
College of Intelligence and Computing
Tianjin University
Tianjin, China
mly@tju.edu.cn
4th Hao Xu
College of Intelligence
and Computing
Tianjin University
Tianjin, China
hao xu@tju.edu.cn
5th Gaowei Shi
College of Intelligence
and Computing
Tianjin University
Tianjin, China
shigaowei@tju.edu.cn
6th Juncheng Ma
College of Intelligence
and Computing
Tianjin University
Tianjin, China
juncheng@tju.edu.cn
7th Keqiu Li (IEEE Fellow)
College of Intelligence
and Computing
Tianjin University
Tianjin, China
keqiu@tju.edu.cn
Abstract—The cross-shard account migration mechanism is
one of the most advanced solutions to the unbalanced load
problem in blockchain sharding systems. Existing solutions
employ locking schemes to ensure the atomicity of transactions
and the consistency of account states. However, these methods
suffer from high transaction locking rates, degraded system
performance, and disordered transaction execution sequences. To
overcome these limitations, this paper proposes the first cross-
shard account migration mechanism based on Multi-Version
State Synchronization (MVSS), which ensures sequential execu-
tion of transactions while reducing the locking rate and latency,
thereby enhancing system throughput. Specifically, MVSS divides
related transactions into two categories based on their arrival
time, and innovates to have the source shard and the destination
shard process each category of transactions, instead of blocking
all transactions at the source shard as in the existing schemes.
Furthermore, in the special timestamp interleaving scenario,
MVSS synchronizes the multiple version states of the account
among the related shards according to the fine-grained order,
which effectively maintains the consistency of the transaction
sequence and the account state. Additionally, this paper delves
into the security aspects of MVSS, proposing effective solutions
to combat double-spending and replay attacks. Finally, We
conducted extensive experiments based on a blockchain sharding
simulator using over 2000 lines of Go to evaluate the performance
of MVSS. The experimental results indicate that, compared to
the state-of-the-art solutions such as Fine-tuned scheme, MVSS
reduces locking time by 23.4%, decreases transaction latency by
7.5%, and improves throughput by 2.3%.
Index Terms—Blockchain, sharding, account migration
I. I NTRODUCTION
A. Background and Motivation
The scalability issue of blockchain has emerged as a sig-
nificant bottleneck to enhancing its performance. Sharding
technology [1]-[8] addresses this challenge by dividing the
nodes of the entire blockchain network into multiple au-
tonomous committees, each processing transactions in parallel
to improve system throughput. This approach has gained
recognition as an effective scalability solution. Solutions such
as Brokerchain [9] use Metis algorithms that optimize ac-
count distribution across shards, balancing the load between
shards and minimizing the number of cross-shard transactions.
Building upon these algorithms, cross-shard account migration
schemes [13]-[15] reallocates accounts across shards without
stopping the process of regular transactions.
However, existing cross-shard account migration schemes
typically lock more than 50% transactions related to the
migrating account in the source shard to ensure consistency
of account states. This practice increases transaction latency,
limits the concurrent processing capability of the sharding
system, and ultimately decreases system throughput. More
critically, locking cross-shard transactions can lead to transac-
tion disorder issues. For instance, consider three transactions,
T X1, T X2 and T X3, respectively, receive 5 tokens, 3 tokens
and withdraw 10 tokens from an account that initially holds 2
tokens. If we execute these transactions in the order of T X1-
T X2-T X3, all submissions succeed, resulting in a final ac-
count balance of 0. Conversely, ifT X1 and T X3 are processed
by the source shard while T X2 is handled by the target shard
after locking, and we execute in the order T X1-T X3-T X2.
T X3 would fail due to insufficient balance, leaving a final
account balance of 10 tokens. This example illustrates that
transaction disorder not only adversely affects the outcomes
of transactions but also disrupts the data consistency of the
blockchain system.
In summary, existing solutions have not effectively miti-
gated the issues of transaction locking and disorder in cross-
shard account migration. Therefore, this paper presents a so-
lution based on the multi-version state synchronization, which
coordinates the sequential processing of related transactions by
the source shard and the target shard. This approach aims to
reduce both the proportion and latency of locked transactions
while improving system throughput during cross-shard account
742
2024 IEEE 23rd International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications (TrustCom)
2324-9013/24/$31.00 ©2024 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/TrustCom63139.2024.00114
2024 IEEE 23rd International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications (TrustCom) | 979-8-3315-0620-9/24/$31.00 ©2024 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/TrustCom63139.2024.00114
Authorized licensed use limited to: TIANJIN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 03:05:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TABLE I
PERFORMANCE OF CROSS-SHARD ACCOUNT MIGRATION
PROTOCOL
Protocol Consensus round TXpayee Locking TXpayer Locking TXs disorder
Full-locked 2 Yes Yes Yes
Semi-locked 4 No Yes Yes
MVSS 4 No No No
migration. It is also important that related transactions are
executed in order.
B. Limitations of Prior Art
Currently, there are two types of cross-shard account mi-
gration schemes: full-locked and semi-locked. The full-locked
scheme, exemplified by the LB mechanism [14], locks all
relevant transactions during the account migration process,
transferring them along with the account to the target shard.
Only after the target shard completes the account reconstruc-
tion are these transactions processed. While this method en-
sures the atomicity of transactions and consistency of account
states during migration, the complete locking of transactions
throughout the process significantly increases transaction la-
tency. Moreover, during bulk account migrations, extensive
locking can hinder the concurrent processing capabilities of
the sharding system, leading to a decline in overall throughput.
In contrast, the semi-locked mechanism, represented by
Fine-tuned [15], only locks the transactions that are deducted
from the account (T X payer) at the start of the migration.
Transactions that deposit into the account (T X payee) remain
unlocked and are processed directly by the source shard,
updating the account state. However, since the semi-locked
scheme requires state updates on the account in the target
shard, it incurs more consensus rounds than the full-locked
scheme. Thus, while it reduces the proportion of locked trans-
actions, the locking time is extended, potentially causing some
transactions to fail due to timeouts or dependencies on other
transactions, ultimately impacting the overall performance of
the system. Furthermore, existing schemes have not addressed
the issue of transaction disorder during cross-shard account
migration, leaving the consistency unguaranteed.
C. MVSS in a Nutshell
To overcome the limitations of existing solutions, this paper
proposes MVSS, a cross-shard account migration mechanism
based on multi-version state synchronization, which signifi-
cantly reduces the locked transactions ratio. Specifically, to
alleviate transaction locking issues, MVSS innovatively sched-
ules the source shard and the target shard to process related
transactions cooperatively, rather than having the source shard
process part of the transactions or lock them completely.
This significantly lowers the locking time of transactions.
Additionally, to address the problem of transaction disorder,
MVSS implements fine-grained ordering and multi-version
state synchronization between the source and target shards, fa-
cilitating synchronization of account states during the ordered
processing of related transactions. This establishes a bridge
for cross-shard transaction processing. Furthermore, MVSS
protects against two types of attacks that may arise during
the cross-shard account migration period, ensuring system
security.
D. Challenges and Solutions
When implementing the MVSS mechanism, we need to
address the following key technical challenges:
The first challenge is how to efficiently schedule transaction
cooperating to process transactions between the source and
target shards, thereby reducing transaction locking. Since the
isolation of transaction processing within each shard, coupled
with a lack of information sharing between shards, processing
multiple transactions for the same account in parallel across
shards is difficult. Traditional optimistic concurrency control
methods can lead to transaction conflicts and rollbacks, in-
creasing system overhead and jeopardizing the consistency of
system data. To tackle these issues, this paper first clearly
delineates the transaction processing responsibilities of the
source and target shards: all unprocessed old transactions
(T Xold) before migration begins are handled in the source
shard, while all new arriving transactions T Xnew are redi-
rected from the source shard to the target shard for processing.
Furthermore, we schedule the related 2 shards to synchronize
the latest account states in a special timestamp interleaving
scenarios to ensure the correct execution of related transactions
while minimizing the high overhead associated with transac-
tion locking on the system.
The second challenge is how to provide a deterministic
transaction order for the source and target shards in a dynamic
operating system. MVSS schedules the processing of multiple
transactions across shards. Since different shards have different
transaction processing speeds, there is no guarantee that trans-
actions will be submitted in order across shards. Therefore,
it is necessary to provide deterministic order between re-
lated shards to prevent transaction disorder. Traditional global
transaction ordering [18] is typically coordinated by system
coordinators such as clients or reference shards, which often
suffer from high latency and poor real-time performance.
However, MVSS needs to dynamically adjust the transaction
order of each account according to the arrival of T Xnew
and synchronize the sorting results across shards in time.
Thus, third-party sorting schemes cannot meet these demands.
Additionally, the target shard lacks relevant information about
T Xold. Therefore, we designate the source shard as the sorter,
which possesses real-time transaction information. The source
shard continuously collects timestamp information from re-
lated transactions, updates the order list in real-time, and
synchronizes the sorting results to the target shard, achieving
deterministic ordering between the shards.
E. Main Contributions
The contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:
• We propose MVSS, the first cross-shard account migra-
tion solution based on multi-version state synchroniza-
743
Authorized licensed use limited to: TIANJIN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 03:05:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
tion, which reduces transaction locking while ensuring
sequential execution.
• MVSS innovatively schedules related shards to pro-
cess transactions cooperatively, alleviating the transaction
locking issue. Additionally, we provide fine-grained order
and multi-version state synchronization between relevant
shards, addressing the transaction disorder problem. This
paper also explores the security of MVSS, presenting
solutions for various attacks.
• We implemented MVSS based on a blockchain sharding
simulator and assessed its performance. Experimental
results indicate that MVSS reduces locking time by
23.4%, increases throughput by 2.3%, decreases trans-
action latency by 7.5%, and ensures sequential execution
of transactions.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section II
introduces the preliminaries, Section III details the MVSS
mechanism, Section IV analyses the property, Section V dis-
cusses the experimental setup and results, Section VI reviews
related work, and Section VII concludes the paper.
II. PRELIMINARIES
Similar to Brokerchain [9], MVSS is based on the
blockchain state-sharding system which consists of multiple
P2P nodes. These P2P nodes need to solve a hash puzzle to
be approved to join the blockchain sharding system, which
is necessary to defend against Sybil attacks [22]. Then these
nodes are divided into several shards and only maintain a
subset of the system’s overall state data. The cuckoo rule
[3] is used to defend against the join-leave attack launched
by P2P nodes, which effectively protects the security of the
system. In addition, MVSS is based on the account-balance
blockchain transaction model, so the ledger that each shard
needs to maintain during the operation of the system is
mainly about the data of accounts and their balances. Within
each shard, the primary node selects a certain number of
transactions in the transaction pool, packs them into a block,
and then forwards the block to other replica nodes in the
shard. These replica nodes modify the balance information of
the corresponding account according to different transactions
after reaching Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT)
consensus. Finally, the node links this block to the local
blockchain as an immutable and traceable transaction record.
If some cross-shard transactions cannot be processed in one
shard, we use the Relay [5] mechanism to resolve them across
multiple shards.
III. SYSTEM DESIGN
A. Overview of MVSS
There are two types of shards in MVSS: reference shard
(R-shard) and working shard (W-shard). As shown in Fig.
1, the system comprises one R-shard and several W-shards.
The responsibilities of these two type of shards in MVSS are
described below:
R-shard. The R-shard is responsible for decision-making
regarding account migration. R-shard nodes collect transac-
tion information from W-shards and periodically run load-
balancing algorithms, i.e., Metis, CLPA, TxAllo to adjust
the account distribution across W-shards. Subsequently, state
blocks are generated and all W-shards are notified of the
adjustment results.
W-shard. The W-shards are responsible not only for per-
forming account migration operations based on the state
block provided by the R-shard, but also for validating and
executing regular transactions during each epoch and adding
the generated transaction blocks to the blockchain. The shard
from which an account is migrating is referred to as the source
shard, while the shard to which the account is migrating is
called the target shard.
B. New Data Structures of MVSS
Similar to existing research [15], we designed three aux-
iliary transactions for cross-shard account migration: (i) the
initial migration transaction T Xini sent by the source shard,
(ii) the migration acknowledgment transaction T Xack sent by
the target shard, and (iii) the account version synchronization
transaction T Xsync which can be sent by both the source and
target shards.
T Xini. Based on the new account distribution provided by
the reference shard, the source shard generates T Xini for the
account to be migrated and sends it to the target shard. The
structure of T Xini is as follows:
T Xini = {T arget, Addr, Stateini, πini, Sync} (1)
T arget indicates the ID of the target shard, Addr contains
the migrating account’s address, Stateini and πini represent
the account’s initial state snapshot and its Merkle proof,
respectively. Sync indicates whether state synchronization is
required. If there are T Xold related to the migrating account
in the source shard, synchronization is necessary, and Sync is
set to true; otherwise, it is set to false.
T Xack. Once the target shard receives T Xini and reaches
consensus, it generates T Xack and sends it to both the
source shard and the reference shard to confirm the successful
migration. The structure of T Xack is defined as follows:
T Xack = {T Xini, τini, Abort} (2)
τini contains the Merkle proof of T Xini stored in the target
shard’s block. Abort indicates whether the migration was
successful. If T Xini is verified as valid, Abort is set to false;
otherwise, it is set to true.
T Xsync. If there are timestamp interleaves between mul-
tiple transactions for the same migrating account, both the
source and target shards can send T Xsync to synchronize the
account’s latest version state. The structure of T Xsync is as
follows:
T Xsync = {Stateold, Statenew, πnew} (3)
Stateold and Statenew represent the old and new versions of
the migrating account’s state, respectively. And πold and πnew
provide the Merkle proofs for these states.
744
Authorized licensed use limited to: TIANJIN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 03:05:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 1. An overview of MVSS.
C. Detail of MVSS
First, let us explain the scenario in which multi-version
state synchronization (MVSS) needs to be executed: during
the cross-shard account migration process, some timestamps
of the old transactions T Xold may be later than the timestamps
of the new transaction T Xnew, which we refer to as timestamp
interleaving. We still assume three transactions T Xi, T Xj and
T Xk, where T Xi and T Xk belong to T Xold, while T Xj
belongs to T Xnew. The timestamps of the three transactions
interleave, i.e., T Si
old < T S j
new < T S k
old. In this case, to
ensure that the three transactions are executed in the order of
T Xi
old-T Xj
new-T Xk
old, both the source and the target shards
need to synchronize the latest account states with each other
after processing T Xi
old and T Xj
new, ensuring that transactions
are executed according to the correct account version states.
Subsequently, we divide MVSS mechanism into 4 stages,
detailed as follows:
Preparation. The source shard obtains the state block
provided by the reference shard, parses the block, and retrieves
the account partition results for the new epoch, identifying
the accounts that need to be migrated. The source shard then
records the initial state of the migrating account Stateini
and generatesT Xini. If there are unprocessed T Xold for that
account in the source shard, the source shard generates an
order list based on the timestamp information of transactions
created by the client. After reaching consensus within the
shard, T Xini is sent to the target shard. During the migration
process, the source shard does not process T Xnew; it merely
records the transaction information, updates the order list, and
then forwards the transaction with a redirection tag to the
target shard.
Migration. Nodes in the target shard validate the effective-
ness of T Xini and reach consensus. If T Xini is invalid, the
failure handling procedure is triggered, halting the migration
in the target shard, generates a T Xack with Abort set to true,
broadcasts T Xack to all shards, and redirects all transactions
related to the migrated account back to the source shard. If
T Xini is valid, the target shard creates a temporary account
and ensures that the state data of that account (balance,
nonce, etc.) is consistent with the initial state provided by
the source shard. If Sync value in T Xini is false, the target
shard generates T Xack, sets Abort to false, reaches consensus
within the shard, and broadcasts this to all shards, notifying
that the account has been migrated to the target shard and
concluding the cross-shard account migration process. If Sync
is true, the process proceeds to the next stage.
Synchronization. The source shard continuously updates
the transaction order list during the redirection process. If
it detects timestamp interleaving, it temporarily holds back
the submission of any T Xold with timestamps greater than
T Si
old. Once T Si
old is fully submitted and the account’s
version state Stateini is updated, the source shard constructs
T Xsync to synchronize Stateini to the target shard. The target
shard receives T Xsync and updates the state version of the
temporary account to Stateini, subsequently executing and
submitting T Xj
new to obtain the new account version Statej.
The target shard then constructs T Xsync again to synchronize
Statej back to the source shard. If the source shard discovers
that a T Xold with a greater timestamp has already been
submitted while redirecting T Xnew, it will terminate that
T Xnew immediately. Once all relevant T Xold transactions
in the source shard have been processed, the source shard
constructs T Xsync one last time to synchronize the final
version state of the account to the target shard, after which
it deletes the account.
Broadcast. After the target shard updates the final state of
the account, it converts the temporary account to a normal
account and broadcasts message about the successful account
migration to all shards, thus completing the cross-shard ac-
count migration process. Subsequently, all related transactions
are handled by the target shard.
D. Defending against Attacks of MVSS
During cross-shard account migration, double-spending and
replay attacks are common security threats. Below are po-
tential scenarios for these two types of attacks, along with
corresponding solutions.
Double-spending attack. A double-spending attack refers
to the act of using the same funds in multiple transactions.
In cross-shard account migration, the migrating account may
745
Authorized licensed use limited to: TIANJIN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 03:05:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Algorithm 1 Multi-Version State Synchronization
1: for txs of the same migrated account do
2: if timestamp interleaving is detected then
3: wait for T Xi
old submitted
4: target shard ← T Xsync
5: wait for T Xj
new submitted
6: source shard ← T Xsync
7: end if
8: if tx with the larger timestamp is submitted then
9: abort txs arriving later with smaller timestamp
10: else
11: wait for all T Xold submitted
12: target shard ← T Xsync
13: end if
14: end for
become the attacker. Assume that account α has 5 tokens
before the migration begins. α initiates a transaction t1 in
the source shard, transferring 5 tokens to account β. However,
when the migration starts, t1 has not yet been processed. After
migrating to the target shard,α initiates another transaction t2,
transferring 5 tokens to account γ. Without appropriate conflict
detection and handling mechanisms, α’s balance may be
double spent. To address this issue, our solution involves nonce
value detection by the source shard during the transaction
redirection process, ensuring that each nonce value can only
succeed once. If multiple transactions with the same nonce
value are detected, it is deemed a double spending attack, and
the source shard will terminate the transaction directly.
Replay attack. A replay attack occurs when an attacker
captures a valid transaction and re-submits it for execution.
During the cross-shard account migration, all nodes in the
system may implement such an attack. Suppose account α
initiates transaction t1 in the source shard before migration,
transferring 5 tokens to account β. If an attacker captures t1
and replays it to the target shard after the migration begins, α’s
tokens may be deducted multiple times. Our solution involves
the target shard jointly checking the nonce value and the
redirection tag to ensure the uniqueness of transactions. In
Stage 2, if the target shard receives a transaction that lacks a
redirection tag and has an abnormal nonce, it can recognize
that the system has been subjected to a replay attack and will
reject that transaction.
IV. ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSION
We need to ensure that MVSS has the properties of liveness,
consistency, determinism and serializability during its opera-
tion. We will define and prove these properties respectively in
the following.Finally, we discuss the overhead of the MVSS
mechanism.
Definition 1: (Liveness.) When an account is migrated
across shards, the system will run a procedure to handle
whether it succeeds or fails.
Theorem 1: MVSS is able to achieve the liveness property
as long as the number of malicious nodes in the source and
the target shards do not exceed the PBFT consensus security
threshold.
Proof: In the migration stage of MVSS (stage 2), the
target shard will verify the validity of T Xini. If it is effective,
it will continue to execute the subsequent program. If not,
the migration failure handler is triggered, which broadcasts
T Xack to all shards to notify the situation. As long as the
number of malicious nodes in both the source and the target
shards is no more than 1/3, the honest nodes in the shard will
reach a consensus on the correct result in PBFT and trigger
the corresponding handle procedure.
Definition 2: (Consistency.) Not only the source and the
target shards, but also other shards and nodes in the system
can receive the final result of account migration.
Theorem 2: MVSS is able to achieve the consistency prop-
erty as long as the number of malicious nodes in all shards
do not exceed the PBFT consensus security threshold.
Proof: In the broadcast stage of MVSS (stage 4), the
migrated account in the source shard no longer exists, and the
temporary account in the target shard has been converted to
the normal account, which is now fully owned by the target
shard. Then the target shard broadcasts this information to
all shards. As long as the number of malicious nodes in all
shards is no more than 1/3, the honest nodes in the shard will
reach a consensus on the correct result in PBFT. After that, all
transactions related to this account are sent to and processed
by the target shard.
Definition 3: (Determinism and serializability.) During the
cross-shard account migration, the related transactions are
executed and committed in a sequential order.
Theorem 3: MVSS is able to achieve the determinism and
serializability properties as long as the number of malicious
nodes in the source and the target shards do not exceed the
PBFT consensus security threshold.
Proof: In the synchronization stage of MVSS (stage 3),
The sorted results of the source shard according to the trans-
action timestamp need to reach consensus in the shard before
they can be synchronized to the target shard through TXsync.
The target shard will also verify TXsync and the sorted results
and reach a consensus. As long as the number of malicious
nodes in the source and the target shards is no more than
1/3, the honest nodes in the shard will reach a consensus on
the correct result in PBFT.So both shards serialize transaction
executions and commits in the same deterministic order. Even
if the special case of timestamp interleaving is encountered, we
provide suitable processing schemes to ensure that transactions
are executed and committed in order.
Overhead discussion. To achieve the goal of scheduling
the source and the target shards to process related transactions
cooperatively, we allow the two relevant shards to each process
a portion of related transactions during cross-shard account
migration. At the same time, we need to ensure that multiple
transactions related to the same account are executed in order,
so we can’t allow the source and the target shards to process
transactions in parallel optimistically. Typically, the timestamp
fo T Xold in the source shard is smaller, so it is processed and
746
Authorized licensed use limited to: TIANJIN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 03:05:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 2. Average latency breakdown with different protocols, number of shards and TXs inject speed.
committed first, and then the target shard processes T Xnew
based on the final state of the account synchronized by the
source shard, with low overhead. In the special timestamp
interleaving scenario, the system needs to synchronize the
state version of the migrated account between the source shard
and the target shard multiple times. During the state synchro-
nization, the execution of subsequent transactions needs to be
blocked to ensure the deterministic and serialization properties
of MVSS, so the system overhead will increase in this case.
The actual impact of overhead on system performance is
discussed further in Section V .
V. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
A. System Implementation
We implemented MVSS using over 2000 lines of Go based
on the open-source platform BlockEmulator 1 [16], utilizing a
dataset of 200,000 historical Ethereum transactions provided
by the XBlock 2 [17]. Our experimental system is divided
into four modules, which are (i) the storage module based
on boltDB and levelDB; (ii) the data module containing the
new auxiliary transaction data structure; (iii) the consensus
module implementing the MVSS operation logic; (iv) the
communication module based on TCP.
The baseline for our experiments consisted of two existing
cross-shard account migration protocols: LB [14] and Fine-
tuned [15], which are representatives of the full-locked and
semi-locked mechanisms, respectively. The experimental vari-
ables included the number of W-shards and the speed at which
transactions were injected into the system, specifically set to
200 ∼ 600 transactions per second across 4 ∼ 8 W-shards.
Other default parameters were as follows: (i) block size of
500; (ii) block interval of 2 seconds; (iii) maximum auxiliary
transactions per block set at 300; and (iv) the R-shard calling
the CLPA algorithm for account reshuffling and migration after
every 50,000 confirmed transactions.
B. Performance Metrics
We assessed the impact of account migration on related
transactions and system performance from four perspectives:
1Available at https://github.com/HuangLab-SYSU/block-emulator
2Available at https://www.xblock.pro
(i) Latency. Latency breakdown is a measure of the time
consumed by related transactions at different stages during
cross-shard account migration. We divided it into three parts,
which include the queuing latency in the source shard (S ), the
transaction locking latency (L), and the queuing latency in the
target shard (T ):
Latency = S + L + T (ms) (4)
(ii) Ratio of locked TXs (RLT). RLT is used to observe the
probability that a related transaction will be locked during a
cross-shard account migration. We defined it as the number
of locked transactions (T X lock) divided by the difference
between the total number of regular transactions (T X reg) and
auxiliary transactions (T X aux):
RLT =
P T Xlock
P T Xreg + P T Xaux
(5)
(iii) Throughput (TPS). TPS is an important metric to
measure the transaction processing capability of a system,
and we define TPS as the amount of T Xreg processed by
the system during account migration divided by the account
migration time (represented by tam):
T P S =
P T Xreg
tam
(txs/s) (6)
(iv) Ratio of disorderly transactions (RDT). RDT is
used to observe the chance that related transactions will be
submitted in an incorrect order. We defined it as the number
of transactions experiencing timestamp interleaving (T X ti)
issues divided by the total number of T Xreg:
RDT =
P T Xti
P T Xreg
(7)
C. System Evaluation and Analysis
Hereinafter, we will respectively analyze the performance
of MVSS in 4 experimental metrics.
Latency: As shown in Fig. 2(a-c), as the TX inject speed
increased from 200 txs/s to 600 txs/s, transaction latency
progressively rose with the increasing system load. Compared
to state-of-the-art 2 locking schemes, MVSS demonstrated
significant advantages in both total transaction latency and
747
Authorized licensed use limited to: TIANJIN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 03:05:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 3. Ratio of locked TXs, Throughput and Ratio of disorderly TXs with different protocols, number of shards and TXs inject speed.
transaction locking time. In Fig. 2(a), when the TX inject
speed reached 600 txs/s, MVSS’s total transaction latency and
locking time were reduced by 7.5% and 23.4%, respectively,
compared to the state-of-the-art study. The trends in Fig. 2(b)
and Fig. 2(c) are similar.
Ratio of locked TXs: As illustrated in Fig. 3(a), the
traditional full-lock scheme, such as LB, already has more than
70% locked proportion of transactions related to the migration
account in the scenario of high system load. However, MVSS
still outperformed other protocols in terms of the ratio of
locked transactions, achieving a minimum locking rate of
only 0.3% in some scenarios. A small number of locked
transactions is necessary to address the timestamp interleaving
issue, as MVSS ensures that transactions are executed in order
during account migration.
Throughput: From Fig. 3(b), we observe that system
throughput during account migration rises as TX inject speed
increases. Compared to the baselines, MVSS exhibits superior
performance in throughput. When the number of W-shards is
4 and TX inject speed reaches 600 txs/s, MVSS’s throughput
improves by 9.1% and 2.3%, respectively. MVSS employs a
multi-version state synchronization strategy to reduce trans-
action locking, which may slightly increase the makespan of
some transactions; however, experimental results indicate that
it enhances the handling capacity of blocked transactions in the
transaction pool. The significant improvement in transaction
processing capability during cross-shard account migration
compensates for the performance loss.
Ratio of disorderly TXs: As shown in Fig. 3(c), only
MVSS can ensure sequential execution, whereas the other two
schemes exhibit transaction disorder. When TX inject speed
reaches 600 txs/s, over 70% of accounts cannot guarantee
transaction order execution and final state correctness. The
main reasons for this phenomenon are (i) As blocked transac-
tions accumulate in the transaction pool, the number of trans-
actions related to a single migrated account increases, raising
the probability of timestamp disorder; (ii) The processing
speeds of intra-shard and cross-shard transactions differ, and
processing cross-shard transactions via Relay [5] mechanism
takes longer, causing later transactions to be executed earlier.
MVSS ensures sequential execution by providing fine-grained
ordering and multi-version state synchronization.
VI. RELATED WORK
Blockchain [19], [20] has attracted a lot of attention due
to its decentralization. Sharding is a technology used to
address blockchain scalability issues. It is mainly divided
into two categories: network-sharding and state-sharding. The
network sharding, represented by Elastico[1], which applies
the concept of database system sharding to blockchain and
significantly improves the parallel processing capability of
blockchain. Subsequently, Omniledger [2] designed ByzCoinX
and Atomix as intra-shard and cross-shard consensus, respec-
tively, to further improve the system transaction throughput.
Meanwhile, Rapidchain [3] proposes a reconfiguration scheme
based on the Cuckoo rule to reduce the sharding overhead.
Then, Chainspace [4] proposes an inter-shard atomic commit
protocol named S-BAC for the efficient processing of smart
contracts. Monoxide [5] proposes a cross-shard processing
mechanism called Relay. And [6] proposed an on-chip con-
sensus protocol called AHL. Recently, the following types of
protocols proposed state sharding, which allows each shard to
store only a portion of the blockchain’s transaction history
and ledger, thereby reducing the storage burden on nodes.
Pyramid [7] has proposed a novel layered state-sharding
scheme. MVCom further optimizes shard reconfiguration by
scheduling the most valuable shard committees
In state-sharding blockchain based on account-balance
model, cross-shard transactions and inter-shard load balancing
are very difficult. Account shuffling is one of the most popular
solutions, which falls into two main categories. Brokerchain
[9] is representative of the first category of schemes, which
require the establishment of separate reconfiguration phases
during system epochs for account redistribution. In addition,
the Constrained Label Propagation Algorithm (CLPA) opti-
mizes the pattern of account allocation between shards. TxAllo
combines global and adaptive community detection algorithms
to further optimize the account shuffling scheme. However,
these solutions disrupt real-time transaction processing in
blockchain sharding systems and increases transaction delays,
thereby affecting overall system performance. Schemes repre-
sented by [14], [15] propose to perform cross-shard account
748
Authorized licensed use limited to: TIANJIN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 03:05:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
migration without stopping processing regular transactions.
Experimental results show that these schemes have higher
system throughput.
VII. CONCLUSION
This paper proposes MVSS, the first blockchain cross-shard
account migration mechanism based on multi-version state
synchronization. MVSS innovatively schedules the source
shard and the target shard to process related transactions co-
operatively, which mitigates transaction locking issues. Addi-
tionally, we employ multi-version state synchronization across
shards based on fine-grained order to address transaction
disorder problems. Experimental results show that, compared
to state-of-the-art studies such as Fine-tuned scheme, MVSS
not only reduces transaction latency by 7.5 % but also ensures
the sequential execution of cross-shard transactions, further
providing a reference for achieving inter-shard account shuf-
fling and load balancing.
VIII. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work is supported by the National Key R&D Program
of China under Grant No. 2022YFB2702100.
REFERENCES
[1] L. Luu, V . Narayanan, C. Zheng, K. Baweja, S. Gilbert, and P. Saxena,
“A Secure Sharding Protocol For Open Blockchains,” in Proc. of ACM
CCS, 2016, pp. 17–30.
[2] E. Kokoris-Kogias, P. Jovanovic, L. Gasser, N. Gailly, E. Syta, and
B. Ford, “Omniledger: A secure, scale-out, decentralized ledger via
sharding,” in Proc. of IEEE S&P, 2018, pp. 583–598.
[3] M. Zamani, M. Movahedi, and M. Raykova, “Rapidchain: Scaling
blockchain via full sharding,” in Proc. of ACM CCS, 2018, pp. 931–948.
[4] M. Al-Bassam, A. Sonnino, S. Bano, D. Hrycyszyn, and G. Danezis,
“Chainspace: A sharded smart contracts platform,” in Proc. of NDSS,
2018.
[5] J. Wang and H. Wang, “Monoxide: Scale out blockchains with asyn-
chronous consensus zones,” in Proc. of USENIX NDSI, 2019, pp.
95–112.
[6] H. Dang, T. T. A. Dinh, D. Loghin, E.-C. Chang, Q. Lin, and B. C. Ooi,
“Towards scaling blockchain systems via sharding,” in Proc. of ACM
SIGMOD, 2019, pp. 123–140.
[7] Z. Hong, S. Guo, P. Li, and W. Chen, “Pyramid: A layered sharding
blockchain system,” in Proc. of IEEE INFOCOM, 2021, pp. 1–10.
[8] H. Huang, Z. Huang, X. Peng, Z. Zheng, and S. Guo, “MVCOM:
Scheduling Most Valuable Committees for the Large-Scale Sharded
Blockchain,” in Proc. of IEEE ICDCS, 2021, pp. 629–639.
[9] H. Huang, X. Peng, J. Zhan, S. Zhang, Y . Lin, Z. Zheng, and S. Guo,
“Brokerchain: A cross-shard blockchain protocol for account/balance-
based state sharding,” in Proc. of IEEE INFOCOM, 2022, pp.
1968–1977.
[10] C. Li, H. Huang, Y . Zhao, X. Peng, R. Yang, Z. Zheng, and S. Guo,
“Achieving scalability and load balance across blockchain shards for
state sharding,” in Proc. of IEEE SRDS, 2022, pp. 284–294.
[11] Y . Zhang, S. Pan, and J. Yu, “TxAllo: Dynamic Transaction Allocation
in Sharded Blockchain Systems,” in Proc. of IEEE ICDE, 2023, pp.
721–733.
[12] K. Mu and X. Wei, “EfShard: Toward Efficient State Sharding
Blockchain via Flexible and Timely State Allocation,” IEEE Transac-
tions on Network and Service Management, 2023, vol. 20, no. 3, pp.
2817–2829.
[13] M. Kr ´ol, O. Ascigil, S. Rene, A. Sonnino, M. Al-Bassam, and E.
Rivi`ere, “Shard scheduler: object placement and migration in sharded
accountbased blockchains,” in Proc. of ACM AFT, 2021, pp. 43–56.
[14] M. Li, W. Wang, and J. Zhang, “LB-Chain: Load-Balanced and Low-
Latency Blockchain Sharding via Account Migration,” IEEE Transaction
on Parallel Distributed System, 2023, vol.34, no.10, pp. 2797–2810.
[15] H. Huang, Y . Lin, and Z. Zheng, “Account Migration across Blockchain
Shards using Fine-tuned Lock Mechanism,” in Proc. of IEEE INFO-
COM, 2024, pp. 271–280.
[16] H. Huang, G. Ye, Q. Chen, Z. Yin, X. Luo, J. Lin et al.,
“BlockEmulator: An Emulator Enabling to Test Blockchain Shard-
ing Protocols,”, 2023, arXiv: arXiv:2311.03612. [Online]. Available:
http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03612
[17] P. Zheng, Z. Zheng, J. Wu, and H.-N. Dai, “XBlock-ETH: Extracting
and Exploring Blockchain Data From Ethereum,” IEEE Open Journal
of the Computer Society, 2020, vol. 1, pp. 95–106.
[18] Z. Hong, S. Guo, E. Zhou, J. Zhang, W. Chen, J. Liang et al., “Prophet:
Conflict-free sharding blockchain via byzantine-tolerant deterministic
ordering,” in Proc. of IEEE INFOCOM, 2023, pp. 1–10.
[19] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” Tech.
Rep., 2008. [Online]. Available: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[20] G. Wood, “Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction
ledger,” Ethereum project yellow paper, 2014, [Online]. Available:
https://ethereum.github.io/yellowpaper/paper.pdf.
[21] M. Castro, B. Liskov et al., “Practical byzantine fault tolerance,” in Proc.
of OSDI, 1999, vol. 99, no. 1999, pp. 173–186.
[22] S. Zhang and J.-H. Lee, “Double-spending with a sybil attack in
the bitcoin decentralized network,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial
Informatics, 2019, vol. 15, no. 10, pp. 5715–5722.
749
Authorized licensed use limited to: TIANJIN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 08,2026 at 03:05:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
