JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 1
MVSS+: A Provably Secure Cross-Shard Account
Migration Protocol Thwarting Replay Attacks
Abstract—The cross-shard account migration mechanism is
one of the most advanced solutions to the unbalanced load
problem in blockchain sharding systems. Existing solutions
employ locking schemes to ensure the atomicity of transactions
and the consistency of account states. However, these methods
suffer from high transaction locking rates, degraded system
performance, and disordered transaction execution sequences. To
overcome these limitations, this paper proposes the first cross-
shard account migration mechanism based on Multi-Version
State Synchronization (MVSS), which ensures sequential execu-
tion of transactions while reducing the locking rate and latency,
thereby enhancing system throughput. Specifically, MVSS divides
related transactions into two categories based on their arrival
time, and innovates to have the source shard and the destination
shard process each category of transactions, instead of blocking
all transactions at the source shard as in the existing schemes.
Furthermore, in the special timestamp interleaving scenario,
MVSS synchronizes the multiple version states of the account
among the related shards according to the fine-grained order,
which effectively maintains the consistency of the transaction
sequence and the account state. Additionally, this paper delves
into the security aspects of MVSS, proposing effective solutions
to combat double-spending and replay attacks. Finally, We
conducted extensive experiments based on a blockchain sharding
simulator using over 2000 lines of Go to evaluate the performance
of MVSS. The experimental results indicate that, compared to
the state-of-the-art solutions such as Fine-tuned scheme, MVSS
reduces locking time by 23.4 %, decreases transaction latency by
7.5%, and improves throughput by 2.3 %. This journal version
introduces a delta state synchronization mechanism to optimize
transmission overhead. MVSS-Delta reduces synchronization cost
by 64% compared to the conference version.
Index Terms—Blockchain, sharding, account migration.
I. I NTRODUCTION
A. Background and Motivation
The decentralized nature of blockchain systems, while
ensuring trustlessness and censorship resistance, inherently
confronts the fundamental scalability trilemma —balancing
decentralization, security, and performance. As application
demand grows, this trilemma becomes a critical bottleneck.
Sharding technology [1]–[8] has emerged as a promising solu-
tion, partitioning the network into smaller, parallel-processing
shards to enable horizontal scaling. State sharding architec-
tures, where each shard maintains only a subset of the global
state, face fundamental limitations in dynamic load balancing.
Due to the unpredictable and skewed nature of transaction
workloads, certain shards become hot shards , processing a
disproportionately high volume of transactions, while others
remain underutilized. As illustrated in Fig. 1, this imbalance
can be severe, with hot shards processing up to 3 × the load of
cold shards, creating performance hotspots and undermining
the scalability benefits of sharding. Solutions such as Bro-
kerchain [9] employ sophisticated algorithms like Metis to
Shard 1
35 acc
50 TPS
Shard 2
32 acc
45 TPS
Hot
Shard
120 acc
210 TPS
Shard 4
28 acc
40 TPS
Migration Overhead
40-70% latency spike
Account
Migration
Load Imbalance
(3× load variance)
Migration
Overhead
(70% TXs locked)
Sync Bottleneck
(85% bandwidth)
Shard 1
45 acc
70 TPS
Shard 2
42 acc
65 TPS
Shard 3
40 acc
60 TPS
Shard 4
38 acc
55 TPS
Lbal: 0.82→ 0.05
Before Migration
After Migration
Fig. 1: Blockchain sharding challenges: (1) Load Imbalance
- Hot shards process 3 × more transactions than cold shards;
(2) Migration Overhead - Account migration causes 40-70%
latency spikes due to transaction locking; (3) Synchronization
Bottleneck - Full-state synchronization consumes 85% of
cross-shard bandwidth. The migration process aims to reduce
load imbalance metric Lbal from 0.82 to 0.05.
optimize account distribution, thereby minimizing cross-shard
transactions. Building upon these foundations, cross-shard
account migration schemes [10]–[12] enable dynamic account
reallocation without interrupting regular transaction process-
ing. However, existing migration mechanisms suffer from
critical limitations that undermine their practical effectiveness.
As summarized in Table I, current approaches typically lock
50-70% of transactions related to migrating accounts to ensure
state consistency, which creates a performance bottleneck.
This paper introduces MVSS+, a novel protocol based on
multi-version state synchronization that coordinates sequential
transaction processing between source and target shards. Our
approach significantly reduces both the proportion and dura-
tion of locked transactions while maintaining strict ordering
guarantees. Furthermore, we introduce a delta state synchro-
nization mechanism that reduces synchronization costs by 64%
compared to full-state synchronization, effectively eliminating
the bandwidth bottleneck in large-scale migrations.
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 2
TABLE I: PERFORMANCE OF CROSS-SHARD ACCOUNT MIGRATION PROTOCOL
Protocol Consensus round TX payee Locking TX payer Locking TXs disorder
Full-locked 2 Yes Yes Yes
Semi-locked 4 No Yes Yes
MVSS 4 No No No
B. Limitations of Prior Art
A systematic analysis of existing cross-shard account migra-
tion protocols reveals fundamental limitations across multiple
critical dimensions, rooted in shared design paradigms that
create inherent trade-offs.
1) Performance Overhead: The Locking Dilemma: The
most severe limitation across existing approaches is their
reliance on transaction locking, which creates systemic per-
formance bottlenecks. The locking mechanism inherent in
both full-locked [11] and semi-locked [12] approaches creates
severe performance bottlenecks. Full-locked protocols increase
transaction latency by 40-70%, while semi-locked alternatives
still incur 20-50% latency overhead. This degradation stems
from transactions being queued during migration completion,
affecting not only migrating accounts but also causing cas-
cading delays throughout the system. Throughput reductions
of 25-35% are commonly observed due to constrained parallel
processing capability. More critically, the deterministic nature
of this performance penalty creates a perverse incentive to
avoid migrations, ultimately undermining dynamic load bal-
ancing.
2) Consistency Guarantees: Inadequate Ordering Seman-
tics: Current protocols provide insufficient consistency guar-
antees, particularly regarding transaction ordering across mi-
gration boundaries. Both categories fail to ensure determin-
istic transaction ordering, creating windows where logical
sequences may be reordered and leading to inconsistent fi-
nal states. Semi-locked approaches introduce additional com-
plexity through differential treatment of transaction types
(T Xpayer vs. T Xpayee), creating implicit dependencies that
violate transaction semantics. Furthermore, while providing
basic migration atomicity, existing protocols cannot guaran-
tee that dependent transaction sequences execute atomically
across the migration boundary, resulting in subtle consistency
violations.
3) Scalability Limitations: Communication and Synchro-
nization Bottlenecks: Architectural choices in existing pro-
tocols create fundamental scalability constraints. Full-state
synchronization consumes up to 85% of cross-shard bandwidth
during migration, establishing a hard scalability limit as shard
counts increase. Semi-locked protocols exacerbate this issue
by requiring additional consensus rounds (4 vs. 2 in full-
locked), increasing migration duration and failure susceptibil-
ity. The need for complex failure recovery mechanisms and
timeout handling further increases implementation complexity
and reduces system robustness at scale.
4) Design Philosophy Limitations: Inherent Trade-off As-
sumptions: The root limitation lies in the underlying design
philosophy that assumes inherent trade-offs between sys-
tem properties. Both protocol types operate on the premise
that maintaining consistency requires sacrificing availability
through transaction locking—a zero-sum mindset that prevents
exploration of alternative coordination mechanisms. Addi-
tionally, existing schemes enforce rigid temporal partitioning
between pre-migration and post-migration states, treating mi-
gration as a disruptive ”mode switch” rather than a continuous
process. This binary approach, combined with monolithic syn-
chronization strategies, creates predictable performance cliffs
and prevents graceful handover.
These limitations motivate MVSS+, which introduces multi-
version state synchronization to eliminate locking while pre-
serving strong consistency, transforming migration from a
blocking operation into a cooperative handover.
C. MVSS in a Nutshell
To address the core limitations of existing migration pro-
tocols, this paper proposes MVSS+, a cross-shard account
migration protocol based on Multi-Version State Synchro-
nization. MVSS+ replaces the traditional locking-and-transfer
approach with a novel cooperative processing paradigm, en-
abling simultaneous transaction processing during migration
while maintaining strong consistency. As illustrated in Figure
2, MVSS+ eliminates transaction locking through workload
partitioning: the source shard processes pre-migration trans-
actions ( T Xold) while the target shard handles new arrivals
(T Xnew). This cooperative scheduling directly resolves the
performance overhead inherent in locked protocols. To ensure
consistency across potential timestamp interleaving, MVSS+
introduces multi-version state synchronization. When conflicts
between T Xold and T Xnew are detected, shards exchange
cryptographically verified updates (T Xsync) to maintain trans-
action ordering and state consistency, effectively addressing
the weak ordering guarantees of existing approaches. For
scalability, the protocol incorporates delta state synchroniza-
tion (MVSS-Delta), transmitting only incremental changes
(∆) rather than full states. This optimization significantly re-
duces the bandwidth bottlenecks that plague current solutions.
Security mechanisms are integrated throughout the design
to prevent migration-specific attacks, while the fundamental
philosophy shift—from atomic blocking to continuous han-
dover—overcomes the inherent trade-off assumptions in prior
art. In essence, MVSS+ transforms migration from a disrup-
tive operation into a seamless online process, simultaneously
achieving the performance, consistency, and scalability goals
that have eluded existing solutions.
D. Challenges and Solutions
The implementation of MVSS+ presents several fundamen-
tal challenges that must be addressed to achieve its perfor-
mance and consistency objectives.
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 3
figs/mvss_overview.pdf
Fig. 2: High-level overview of the MVSS+ protocol, illustrat-
ing the cooperative transaction processing between source and
target shards across the four stages: Preparation, Migration,
Synchronization, and Broadcast.
The first challenge is how to efficiently schedule transactions
cooperating to process transactions between the source and
target shards, thereby reducing transaction locking . Simply
partitioning workload ( T Xold and T Xnew) is insufficient,
as timestamp interleaving can lead to state conflicts, and
naively synchronizing full states would impose prohibitive
communication overhead. Our solution is a unified coordina-
tion mechanism that integrates multi-version state synchroniza-
tion with an incremental delta-sync strategy . When potential
conflicts are detected, the shards engage in a synchronization
phase. However, instead of exchanging full account states—a
process that consumes up to 85% of cross-shard bandwidth
in existing protocols—our MVSS-Delta optimization transmits
only the cryptographically secured, incremental state changes
(∆). This design is fundamental to the protocol’s viability,
making frequent, fine-grained synchronization practical and
thereby enabling truly non-blocking processing. To prevent
disorder, the source shard, possessing the complete history of
T Xold, acts as a decentralized ordering authority, propagating
a deterministic transaction sequence to the target shard. This
integrated approach ensures that the performance benefits of
cooperative processing are not undone by the overhead of
maintaining consistency.
The second challenge is to provide deterministic transaction
ordering between source and target shards in a dynamic
operating system while enabling efficient state verification. In
MVSS, the independent processing speeds of different shards
create inherent risks of transaction disorder, necessitating
a reliable ordering mechanism. Traditional global ordering
approaches [13] relying on external coordinators introduce
unacceptable latency and poor real-time performance for our
migration scenario, especially given MVSS’s need to dynam-
ically adjust ordering based on arriving T Xnew transactions.
Our solution establishes the source shard as the natural or-
dering authority, leveraging its complete knowledge of T Xold
transactions. The source shard continuously collects timestamp
information, maintains a real-time order list, and propagates
deterministic sequences to the target shard. Crucially, we
enhance this ordering mechanism with a hierarchical Merkle
proof verification scheme that efficiently validates both the
ordering commands and the accompanying state updates. This
integrated approach ensures not only transaction consistency
but also maintains the performance benefits of our cooperative
processing model by minimizing the verification overhead
typically associated with cross-shard coordination. The target
shard can thus reliably verify the integrity and ordering of
synchronized states without compromising system throughput
or migration efficiency. This solution effectively addresses
the dual requirements of deterministic ordering and efficient
verification, enabling MVSS+ to maintain strong consistency
guarantees while preserving the performance advantages of
our lock-free migration approach.
E. Main Contributions
The contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:
• We propose MVSS, the first cross-shard account migra-
tion solution based on multi-version state synchroniza-
tion, which reduces transaction locking while ensuring
sequential execution.
• MVSS innovatively schedules related shards to pro-
cess transactions cooperatively, alleviating the transaction
locking issue. Additionally, we provide fine-grained order
and multi-version state synchronization between relevant
shards, addressing the transaction disorder problem. This
paper also explores the security of MVSS, presenting
solutions for various attacks.
• We implemented MVSS based on a blockchain sharding
simulator and assessed its performance. Experimental
results indicate that MVSS reduces locking time by
23.4%, increases throughput by 2.3 %, decreases trans-
action latency by 7.5 %, and ensures sequential execution
of transactions.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section II
introduces the preliminaries, Section III details the MVSS
mechanism, Section IV analyzes the property, Section V dis-
cusses the experimental setup and results, Section VI reviews
related work, and Section VII concludes the paper.
II. PRELIMINARIES
MVSS+ operates within a state-sharded blockchain, which
employs PoW for Sybil resistance [14], cuckoo rule for join-
leave attack protection [3], and PBFT consensus within shards.
A. Sharding Fundamentals
Blockchain sharding [9] partitions a network of N nodes
V = {v1, . . . , vN } into K disjoint shards S = {S1, . . . , SK}
where ∪K
i=1Si = V and Si ∩ Sj = ∅ for i ̸= j. The
system operates a structured node lifecycle encompassing
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 4
three phases: node joining via Proof-of-Work puzzle solving
(H(nonce||ID) < target ) for Sybil resistance, shard as-
signment through cuckoo rule ( Si = H(ID) mod K), and
intra-shard transaction processing secured by Practical Byzan-
tine Fault Tolerance consensus. For cross-shard transaction
handling, the system employs a Relay mechanism that pro-
cesses transactions locally when all involved accounts reside
within the same shard, and forwards them to the appropriate
destination shards otherwise [5]. Optimal sharding achieves
three critical objectives. Load Balancing minimizes shard size
variance through:
Lbal = 1
K
KX
i=1
(|Si| − µ)2 , µ = N
K (1)
with Lbal → 0 indicating perfect balance. Cross-Shard Min-
imization reduces inter-shard transactions:
Lcross = 1
|E|
X
(u,v)∈E
I[shard(u) ̸= shard(v)] (2)
where E is the transaction edge set, I is the indicator function.
Security Assurance maintains Byzantine fault tolerance:
Lsec =
KX
i=1
max (0, τ − f(Si)) , f (Si) = |{v ∈ Si : honest(v)}|
|Si|
(3)
with τ > 2
3 ensuring PBFT consensus viability.
The overall sharding optimization is formulated as:
min
S
(αLbal + βLcross + γLsec) (4)
where α, β, γ are weighting coefficients.
B. Consistency Model for Cross-Shard Migration
Here, we formalize cross-shard account migration within a
distributed KV model where account ownership transfer must
preserve strict consistency semantics. A system history H con-
sists of sequences of read R(addr) and write W (addr, state)
operations on account states, culminating in commit or abort
events. The fundamental ordering requirement is captured
through real-time precedence ( ≺rt), where operation op1 pre-
cedes op2 if op1’s response occurs before op2’s invocation.
The migration protocol must ensure linearizability, requiring
that operations appear to execute atomically at some instant
between their invocation and response while respecting real-
time ordering. This presents the challenge for MVSS+: main-
taining linearizability when transactions process concurrently
across source and target shards during ownership transfer,
where traditional locking approaches sacrifice availability and
optimistic methods risk consistency violations.
III. SYSTEM DESIGN
A. Overview of MVSS
The MVSS+ protocol operates within a state-sharding
blockchain architecture comprising two specialized shard
types: the reference shard (R-shard) and multiple working
shards (W-shards). R-shard acts as the system’s control plane,
responsible for macro-level load-balancing decisions. It col-
lects transaction load metrics from all W-shards and period-
ically executes account redistribution algorithms (e.g., Metis,
CLPA, TxAllo). The output is a state block containing the
new account distribution, which is broadcast to all W-shards
to initiate migration epochs. W-shards form the data plane,
responsible for processing regular transactions and executing
account migrations mandated by the R-shard. During a mi-
gration involving an account a, the W-shard currently hosting
a is termed the source shard, while the shard designated to
receive a is the target shard.
B. Data Structures for Cross-Shard Migration
To orchestrate cross-shard account migration without global
locking, MVSS+ introduces three auxiliary transaction types,
extending prior work [12]: (i) the initial migration transaction
T Xini sent by the source shard, (ii) the migration acknowl-
edgment transaction T Xack sent by the target shard, and (iii)
the account version synchronization transaction T Xsync which
can be sent by both the source and target shards.
1) Initial Migration Transaction TX ini: The source shard
initiates migration by generating and sending T Xini =
{Target, Addr, Stateini, πini, Sync, LatestMR, LastCN}
to the target shard, where T arget denotes the ID of the target
shard, Addr is the migrating account’s address, Stateini
is the state snapshot with Merkle proof πini, and Sync is
a Boolean flag indicating whether state synchronization is
required. LatestMR commits all processed transactions
in the source shard’s latest block, while LastCN records
the highest committed nonce of the account, establishing
a definitive baseline for incremental synchronization and
preventing double-spending.
2) Migration Acknowledgment Transaction
TXack: confirms reception with T Xack =
{T Xini, τini, Abort, T argetBH}, where τini is the Merkle
proof of T Xini in the target shard’s blockchain, Abort
indicates migration status, and T argetBH is the hash of
the block containing T Xack in the target shard, providing a
precise reference for cross-shard verification.
3) Account Version Synchronization Transaction
TXsync: enables efficient state synchronization
during timestamp interleaving scenarios, T Xsync =
{Stateold, Statenew, πold, πnew, DeltaMR, StartN, EndN}
Where Stateold and Statenew denote the migrating account’s
states with corresponding Merkle proofs πold and πnew,
DeltaMR commits all transactions inducing the transition
from Stateold to Statenew, enabling efficient verification
without raw data exchange. This compact commitment allows
efficient verification without transmitting entire transactions,
reducing bandwidth overhead. StartN and EndN specify
the nonce range of the synchronized transaction batch.
For high-frequency migration scenarios, MVSS+ further
employs delta synchronization T Xsync delta and its associated
procedures, which can be used as an alternative to the full
T Xsync in the synchronization protocol. T Xsync delta =
{Addr, ∆Balance, ∆Nonce, StorageRoot, πdelta}, ∆Balance
denotes the signed balance change, ∆Nonce is the nonce
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 5
Fig. 3: An overview of MVSS.
increment, StorageRoot is transmitted only when contract
storage changes, and πdelta is the Merkle proof for the
delta states. The delta synchronization mechanism operates
in sliding windows (default 100ms) to aggregate state
changes, significantly reducing the number of synchronization
messages required during account migration.
C. Detail of MVSS
MVSS+ achieves linearizability through an integrated pro-
tocol that coordinates three core mechanisms across four
operational stages. The protocol employs Global Transac-
tion Ordering maintained by the source shard Lorder =
[tx1, tx2, ..., txn], based on client-generated timestamps and
intra-shard consensus. This order list serves as the sin-
gle source of truth for transaction sequencing across both
shards. In Multi-Version State Management , each ac-
count state is versioned State = {v1, v2, ..., vk}, where
vi = ( balancei, noncei, timestampi, ∆M erkleRooti).
Transactions execute against specific state versions according
to their position in Lorder. As for Atomic State Synchroniza-
tion, when timestamp interleaving is detected, T Xsync trans-
actions atomically propagate state versions between shards
Sync(vsource, vtarget) → vmerged, where vmerged insures all
valid state transitions while preserving the global order.
The protocol specifically addresses timestamp interleav-
ing scenarios where T Xold may have later timestamps than
T Xnew. Consider three transactions T Xi, T Xj, and T Xk
where T Xi and T Xk belong to T Xold while T Xj belongs to
T Xnew, with timestamps satisfying T Si
old < T S j
new < T S k
old.
To ensure correct execution order T Xi
old-T Xj
new-T Xk
old, both
source and target shards must synchronize account states
after processing T Xi
old and T Xj
new, guaranteeing transactions
execute against appropriate state versions.
We divide the MVSS++ protocol into 4 stages:
Stage 1: Preparation. The source shard obtains the state
block provided by the R-shard, parses it, and retrieves the
account partition results for the new epoch, identifying the
accounts that require migration. The source shard then records
the initial state of the migrating account Stateini and gen-
erates T Xini. It also computes the LatestMR from its
most recent block and records the LastCN for the migrating
account. If there are unprocessed T Xold for that account
in the source shard, it generates an order list based on the
timestamp information of transactions created by the client.
After reaching consensus, T Xini is sent to the target shard.
During the migration process, the source shard merely records
the transaction information, updates the order list, and then
forwards with a redirection tag to the target shard.
Stage 2: Migration. Nodes in the target shard validate
the effectiveness of T Xini and reach consensus. If T Xini is
invalid, the failure handling procedure is triggered, halting the
migration in the target shard, generates a T Xack with Abort
set to true, broadcasts T Xack to all shards, and redirects all
transactions related to the migrated account back to the source
shard. If T Xini is valid, the target shard creates a temporary
account and ensures that the state data of that account (balance,
nonce, etc.) is consistent with the initial state provided by the
source shard. The target shard also records the T argetBH
when generating T Xack. If the Sync value in T Xini is false,
the target shard generates T Xack, sets Abort to false, reaches
consensus within the shard, and broadcasts this to all shards,
notifying that the account has been migrated to the target shard
and concluding the cross-shard account migration process. If
Sync is true, the process proceeds to the next stage.
Stage 3: Synchronization. The source shard continuously
updates Lorder. Upon detecting interleaving, it holds back later
T Xold (e.g., T Xk
old). After processing T Xi
old, it computes the
DeltaMR for the state transition to Stateini, along with the
StartN and EndN values, and sends T Xsync to the target
shard. The target shard verifies the proofs ( πold, πnew) and
the DeltaMR before updating its temporary account state.
It then processes T Xj
new, computes a new DeltaMR, and
sends T Xsync back to the source shard. This synchronization
continues until all T Xold are processed. The final state is
synchronized, and the source shard deletes the account.
Stage 4: Broadcast. After the target shard updates the final
state of the account, it converts the temporary account to a
normal account and broadcasts message about the successful
account migration to all shards, thus completing the cross-
shard account migration process. Subsequently, all related
transactions are handled by the target shard.
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 6
Algorithm 1: MVSS++ Protocol
Input: Source shard Ss with account a, target shard
Sd, ordered transaction list Lorder
Output: Synchronized account Statef inal in Sd
1 begin
2 for each migrating account a do
3 if timestamp interleaving detected in Lorder
then
// Ss processes and
synchronizes
4 Ss: Wait for commitment of T Xi
old;
5 Ss: Compute DeltaMR for processed
transactions;
6 Ss → Sd: Send T Xsync with Stateold,
Statenew, DeltaMR, πold, πnew;
// Sd verifies and updates
state
7 Sd: Verify πold, πnew, DeltaMR;
8 Sd: Update temporary account state;
9 Sd: Execute T Xj
new;
10 Sd: Compute new DeltaMR for state
changes;
11 Sd → Ss: Send T Xsync with updated state
and proofs;
12 if T Xold with larger timestamp committed in
Ss then
13 Abort conflicting T Xnew with smaller
timestamps in Sd;
14 else
15 Ss: Process remaining T Xold transactions;
16 Ss: Compute final DeltaMR;
17 Ss → Sd: Send final T Xsync with
complete state transfer;
18 migration complete ← true;
19 return Statef inal from Sd;
IV. D ELTA STATE SYNCHRONIZATION MECHANISM
Instead of transferring complete account states, MVSS++
transmits only incremental changes to reduce bandwidth con-
sumption while maintaining consistency guarantees.
A. Incremental Snapshot Generation
Definition 1 (State Delta) . For migrating account a epoch
transition t − 1 → t, the state delta ∆a
t captures incremental
changes, where δbalance = balancet − balancet−1, δnonce =
noncet − noncet−1, ∆storage represents contract storage
modifications, and πdelta provides cryptographic verification:
∆a
t = (δbalance, δnonce, ∆storage, πdelta) (5)
The storage delta computation uses Merkle Patricia Trie:
∆s = {(pathi, valuei) | MPTt[pathi] ̸= MPTt−1[pathi]}
(6)
Algorithm 2: Delta State Synchronization Protocol
Input: Migrating account a with Stateprev (last
synchronization) and Statecurr (current state)
Output: Delta snapshot ∆, ∅ if no changes
1 Function GenerateDelta(account a):
2 δbalance ← Statecurr.balance−Stateprev.balance;
3 δnonce ← Statecurr.nonce − Stateprev.nonce;
4 ∆storage ← ∅;
5 if
a.isContract()∧Statecurr.storageRoot ̸=
Stateprev.storageRoot then
6 ∆storage ←
COMPUTE STORAGE DELTA(Stateprev.storageRoot,
7 Statecurr.storageRoot);
8 if δbalance = 0 ∧ δnonce = 0 ∧ ∆storage = ∅ then
9 return ∅
10 πdelta ← GENERATE MERKLE PROOF (Statecurr)
return ⟨δbalance, δnonce, ∆storage, πdelta⟩;
11 Function Synchronization(Source/Target Shard Ss/Sd):
12 window ← INITIALIZE SLIDING WINDOW (100ms)
∆aggregate ← ∅;
13 while not migration complete do
14 foreach migrating account a in Ss do
15 ∆ ← GENERATE DELTA(a);
16 if ∆ ̸= ∅ then
17 ∆aggregate ← ∆aggregate ∪ {⟨a, ∆⟩};
18 if
WINDOW EXPIRED (window)∨∆aggregate ̸= ∅
then
19 T Xsync delta ←
CONSTRUCT TX(∆aggregate );
20 SEND TOSHARD (Sd, T Xsync delta)
RESET WINDOW (window);
21 ∆aggregate ← ∅
B. Adaptive Window Aggregation
Definition 2 (Aggregation Window). Let W be a time-bound
window parameter. The aggregation set AW for shard S is:
AW =
[
t∈[τ,τ +W]
{(a, ∆a
t ) | a ∈ M ∧ ∆a
t ̸= ∅} (7)
where M is the set of migrating accounts.
C. Timestamp Interleaving Resolution
Theorem 1 (Ordered Delta Application). For two transactions
T Xi and T Xj with T Si < T Sj, their deltas must satisfy:
∆a
T Sj = f(Apply(∆a
T Si , stateT Si) (8)
where f is the state transition function.
The validation function ensures atomicity by verify-
ing: the new state must maintain a non-negative balance
(Snew.balance ≥ 0), the nonce must increment exactly by
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 7
Algorithm 3: Adaptive Window Management
Input: Current aggregation set A, network conditions
Output: Optimal window size Woptimal
1 Function ComputeAdaptiveWindowSize():
2 bandwidth ←
ESTIMATE CROSS SHARD BANDWIDTH ;
3 txRate ← GETTRANSACTION RATE(M);
4 queueSize ←
GETPENDING TRANSACTION COUNT ;
5 if queueSize > θ high then
6 return Wmin; // Minimal window
under high load
7 else if bandwidth < θ bw then
8 return min
 
Wmax, θbw
txRate

;
// Bandwidth-constrained window
9 else
10 return Wdef ault
one from the previous state ( Snew.nonce = Sold.nonce + 1),
and the storage root must remain valid. Only when all these
conditions are satisfied does the validation function return true.
D. Delta Chain Verification
Definition 3 (Delta Chain Integrity) . A sequence of deltas
{∆1, . . . ,∆n} forms a valid chain iff:
H(∆i) = H

δ(i)
b ∥ δ(i)
n ∥ H(∆(i)
s ) ∥ H(∆i−1)

(9)
with H(∆0) = Hash(state0).
V. SYSTEM ANALYSIS
This section presents a comprehensive analysis of the
MVSS+ protocol, examining its security foundations, consis-
tency guarantees, and formal proofs for core properties.
A. Threat Model and Security Foundations
MVSS+ rests upon the following System Assumptions :
1) Honest Majority. Each shard Si contains at least
⌈2|Si|/3⌉ + 1 honest nodes, a prerequisite for the security
of the underlying PBFT consensus [15], [16]; 2) Partial
Synchrony. The network is partially synchronous [17]. After
an unknown Global Stabilization Time (GST), all messages
between honest nodes are delivered within a known bounded
delay ∆; 3) Secure Cryptography. Cryptographic primitives,
such as hash functions and digital signatures, are collision-
resistant and existentially unforgeable under chosen attacks.
We consider a computationally bounded Byzantine adver-
sary A that can: 1) Adaptively corrupt up to f < |Si|/3 nodes
in any shard Si, causing them to arbitrarily deviate from the
protocol; 2) Control a subset of user accounts, including initi-
ating transactions and migration requests from them; 3) Fully
control the network communication between corrupted nodes.
For communication involving honest nodes, A can eavesdrop,
delay, drop, or replay messages, but cannot indefinitely prevent
Algorithm 4: Delta State Application and Verification
Input: Account a, state delta ∆, timestamp T S, initial
state state0, delta chain ∆chain
Output: Application status and verification result
1 Function ApplyOrderedDelta(a, ∆, T S):
2 ACQUIRE LOCK(a);
3 currentState ← GETCURRENT STATE(a);
4 if T S < currentState.lastAppliedT imestamp
then
5 REJECT DELTA(∆, ”Timestamp violation”);
6 return false; // Out-of-order
7 newState ←
COMPUTE NEWSTATE(currentState, ∆);
8 if
VALIDATE STATETRANSITION (currentState, newState )
then
9 UPDATE ACCOUNT STATE(a, newState, T S);
10 RELEASE LOCK(a);
11 return true; // Application success
12 else
13 REJECT DELTA(∆, ”Invalid state transition”);
14 return false; // Validation failed
15 Function VerifyDeltaChain(state0, ∆chain):
16 previousHash ← H(state0);
17 foreach ∆ ∈ ∆chain do
18 computedHash ← H(∆.δb ∥ ∆.δn ∥
H(∆.∆storage) ∥ previousHash );
19 if computedHash ̸= ∆.headerHash then
20 return false; // Chain violation
21 previousHash ← computedHash;
22 return true; // Successfully verified
communication between them. The adversary A cannot break
the cryptographic primitives and corrupt more than one-third
of the nodes in any single shard.
The MVSS+ protocol is designed to achieve the following
Security Goals : 1) Consistency (Safety). All honest nodes
across all shards maintain a consistent view of the state of
any migrated account. No double-spending, overspending, or
invalid state transitions can occur. 2) Liveness. All valid
transactions and migration requests initiated by honest users
are eventually processed and committed to the blockchain.
3) Ordering Fairness. The relative order of transactions
pertaining to a specific account is preserved according to a
deterministic protocol-defined ordering (e.g., based on times-
tamps), preventing disorderly execution. 4) Auditability. The
entire account migration process is verifiable. An immutable
cryptographic audit trail is maintained on-chain, allowing any
node to validate the correctness of state transitions.
B. Attack Vectors and Mitigation Strategies
Within the described threat model, we analyze two critical
attack vectors and detail MVSS+’s countermeasures.
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 8
1) Double-Spending Attack Mitigation .
Attack Vector: An adversary controlling account α with bal-
ance Bα initiates transaction t1 : α
Bα
− − →β in the source shard
Ssrc prior to migration initiation. The adversary strategically
delays t1’s inclusion in the blockchain, leaving it pending in
the transaction pool. Concurrently, migration of α to target
shard Stgt commences, resulting in state replication where α’s
balance Bα is transferred to Stgt. The adversary then exploits
this temporal window by submitting transaction t2 : α
Bα
− − →γ
to Stgt, attempting to spend the same funds twice.
Mitigation in MVSS+: The protocol leverages the sequen-
tial monotonicity of account nonces, where each transaction
consumes exactly one nonce value. The source shard Ssrc,
serving as the sequencing authority for pre-migration trans-
actions ( T Xold), maintains continuous monitoring of nonce
progression for migrating accounts. During the redirection
phase, when a post-migration transaction ( T Xnew) arrives at
Stgt with nonce n, the target shard performs cross-shard nonce
validation against the latest committed state from Ssrc. If
n ≤ ncurrent (where ncurrent represents the highest nonce
processed by Ssrc), the transaction is immediately rejected as
a potential double-spend attempt. This nonce-based defense
is complemented by the state synchronization mechanism
(T Xsync), which atomically propagates nonce increments
between shards, ensuring global consistency of the nonce
sequence space.
2) Replay Attack Mitigation .
Attack Vector: The transaction replay attack exploits the
state transition discontinuity inherent in account migration
processes. An adversary intercepts a legitimate transaction
t1 : α
v
− →β that was successfully executed and committed in
Ssrc prior to migration completion. Following α’s migration
to Stgt, the adversary resubmits t1 to Stgt, attempting to
re-execute the same state transition and illegitimately deduct
value v from α’s balance a second time.
Mitigation in MVSS+: MVSS+ employs a dual-mechanism
defense strategy against replay attacks, combining crypto-
graphic transaction provenance with state-aware validation.
First, the protocol introduces a cryptographically secured
redirection tag τ that is attached to all T Xnew transac-
tions. This tag is generated using a key derivation function
KDF (skα, noncemigration), where skα is the account’s pri-
vate key and noncemigration is a migration-specific nonce.
Any transaction without this valid tag is identified as a poten-
tial replay attempt and rejected by Stgt. Second, the protocol
enforces strict nonce continuity across migration boundaries.
During migration finalization, Stgt initializes α’s nonce to
nf inal + 1, where nf inal is the highest nonce committed
in Ssrc. Consequently, any replayed transaction with nonce
n ≤ nf inal fails validation due to nonce violation. This
combined approach of cryptographic provenance marking and
state continuity enforcement provides robust protection against
replay attacks while maintaining the protocol’s performance
objectives of minimal latency overhead.
C. Protocol Properties Analysis
Definition 4 (Protocol Liveness). A cross-shard account mi-
gration protocol satisfiesliveness if for every migration request
m initiated by an honest node at time t, there exists a finite
time t′ > t such that either m is successfully completed and
committed across all relevant shards, orm is explicitly aborted
with a verifiable proof of failure distributed to all participants.
Theorem 2. Under the honest majority assumption ( f < n/ 3
Byzantine nodes per shard) and partial synchrony, MVSS+
guarantees liveness for all valid migration requests.
Proof: We prove liveness through protocol stage analysis:
In Stage 1 (Preparation) , the migration initiation transaction
T Xini undergoes PBFT consensus within the target shard.
Given f < n/ 3, honest nodes can reach agreement on T Xini’s
validity within bounded rounds. The consensus termination
property ensures that this stage completes. In Stage 2 (Migra-
tion), cooperative processing commences with the source shard
handling T Xold and target shard processing T Xnew. Partial
synchrony guarantees message delivery within ∆ after GST,
preventing indefinite blocking. The absence of transaction
locking eliminates the primary source of livelock in traditional
approaches. In Stage 3 (Synchronization) , T Xsync operations
resolve state conflicts incrementally. The sliding window
aggregation with W ≥ 3 ensures bounded synchronization
latency while maintaining safety. In Stage 4 (Broadcast), final
state commitment employs PBFT consensus, which terminates
under our fault assumptions. The abort mechanism in Stage 2
provides explicit failure notification when migrations cannot
proceed. The protocol’s progress across all stages is ensured by
the combination of consensus termination, bounded network
delays, and the elimination of blocking operations.
Definition 5 (State Consistency). A sharded blockchain main-
tains state consistency if for any account α and any two honest
nodes ni, nj in possibly different shards, the observed state of
α satisfies:
∀t > t f inal, state ni(α, t) = statenj(α, t)
where tf inal is the time when all transactions involving α are
committed.
Theorem 3. MVSS+ ensures state consistency for migrated
accounts under the honest majority assumption.
Proof: Consistency is preserved through three comple-
mentary mechanisms. Sequential Nonce Enforcement: Each
transaction consumes a unique nonce ni, preventing double-
execution. The nonce sequence n1, n2, . . . , nk is strictly
monotonic and globally observable. Atomic State Synchro-
nization: T Xsync operations employ two-phase coordination
between source and target shards. For state transition δ : S →
S′, the operation either commits δ atomically across both
shards or aborts without partial effects. Deterministic Order-
ing: The source shard maintains total order Lorder through
PBFT-backed consensus. Cross-shard coordination ensures this
order is preserved during migration. Formally, for transactions
txi, txj with timestamp(txi) < timestamp(txj), execution
order satisfies txi ≺ txj in all shards. The combination
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 9
of these mechanisms ensures that all honest nodes observe
identical state sequences for migrated accounts.
Definition 6 (System Execution Model). An execution history
H is a tuple (E, ≺proc, ≺rt) where:
• E is a set of events representing operation invocations
and responses
• ≺proc is the program order per process (shard)
• ≺rt is the real-time order between events
Each transaction tx ∈ H is modeled as a sequence of
operations on account states with explicit migration events.
Definition 7 (Migration Serializability) . A history H is lin-
earizable if there exists a legal sequential permutation S
of H that preserves both process order ( ≺proc) and real-
time order ( ≺rt), ensuring operations appear to take effect
instantaneously at some point between their invocation and
response.
Theorem 4 (MVSS+ Serializability Guarantee). MVSS+ guar-
antees linearizability for all transactions involving migrating
accounts, provided the underlying intra-shard consensus is
linearizable and the network is partially synchronous.
Proof: The protocol establishes a total order Lorder
through PBFT-backed consensus, providing deterministic se-
quencing across shards. This ordering serves as the single
source of truth for transaction sequencing. Consider any
two transactions txi and txj with txi ≺rt txj: Same-
Shard Transactions: Local linearizability inherited from
PBFT consensus ensures ≺rt preservation. Cross-Shard Mi-
gration ( T Xold ≺rt T Xnew): Protocol design guarantees
T Xold commitment before T Xnew processing through the
migration initiation barrier ( T Xini). Temporal Impossibility
(T Xnew ≺rt T Xold): This ordering is architecturally pre-
vented by the migration protocol’s phase separation. Atomic
State Management: Multi-version state management with
State = {v1, v2, . . . , vk} enables concurrent processing while
maintaining deterministic state evolution according to Lorder.
The combination ensures the existence of a legal sequential
permutation S that respects all real-time constraints while
maintaining the protocol’s performance advantages.
Theorem 5 (Atomic Migration Semantics) . The account mi-
gration operation in MVSS+ is atomic—it either completes
entirely with all associated state transitions or aborts without
partial effects, maintaining system-wide consistency.
Proof: Atomicity is achieved through a multi-phase
commit protocol with explicit failure handling: Preparation
Phase: T Xini validation through PBFT consensus provides
all-or-nothing initiation. Failure at this stage results in a clean
abort with no state changes. Incremental Synchronization:
Each T Xsync operation atomically applies state deltas with
rollback capability through versioned state management. The
hierarchical Merkle proofs provide cryptographic guarantees
of state consistency throughout this phase. Final Commit-
ment: The migration concludes with an atomic broadcast that
either commits the final state across all shards, making the mi-
gration permanent, or triggers the abort protocol, rolling back
all intermediate states using the complete version history. The
protocol maintains atomicity without resorting to transaction
locking, instead leveraging consensus atomicity, cryptographic
state commitments, and explicit rollback procedures to achieve
the same semantic guarantees.
Definition 8 (Cryptographic Auditability). A migration proto-
col provides cryptographic auditability if any state transition δ
can be efficiently verified using compact proofs πδ such that:
Pr[Verify(πδ, δ) = accept ∧ δ is invalid] ≤ ϵ(λ)
where ϵ(λ) is negligible in the security parameter λ, and
|πδ| ∈ O(log n).
Theorem 6 (MVSS+ Auditability Guarantee) . MVSS+ with
hierarchical Merkle proofs achieves cryptographic auditability
with ϵ(λ) negligible under collision-resistant hash.
Proof: The auditability guarantee stems from the hi-
erarchical Merkle tree construction. Each T Xsync contains
∆MerkleRootsync, a cryptographic commitment to the batched
state transitions. For k transactions in a synchronization batch,
the root provides O(1) storage overhead. Verification of
transaction txi’s inclusion requires a Merkle path of length
O(log k), providing logarithmic scaling relative to batch size.
Suppose an adversary A can produce a valid proof π for
invalid state transition δ∗. This implies A found either a
Merkle tree collision: H(x) = H(y) for x ̸= y, violating
collision resistance, or a valid signature for δ∗ without the
private key, violating existential unforgeability. Both events
occur with negligible probability under our cryptographic
assumptions, thus establishing the auditability guarantee.
Theorem 7 (Storage Optimization Bound) . For non-contract
accounts, MVSS+ reduces state synchronization overhead to at
most 14.3% of full state transfer while maintaining equivalent
security guarantees.
Proof: We analyze the information-theoretic minimal
representation required for secure state synchronization. A
complete account state requires:
|Sf ull| = |addr| + |balance| + |nonce| + |metadata|
= 32B + 32B + 8B + 56B = 128B
MVSS+ transmits only incremental changes:
|S∆| = |∆balance| + |∆nonce| + |auth|
= 4B + 2B + |∆M erkleRoot|
≤ 6B + 32B = 38B
The optimization ratio is bounded by:
|S∆|
|Sf ull| ≤ 38
128 ≈ 29.7%
For common cases with balance-only changes, the ratio im-
proves to:
4B + 2B
42B ≈ 14.3%
The security is preserved because the ∆MerkleRoot commits
to the complete state transition history, enabling full recon-
struction when necessary.
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 10
Theorem 8 (Sliding Window Security) . With window size
W ≥ 3, MVSS+’s sliding window aggregation ensures that
the probability of undetected timestamp interleaving satisfies:
Pinterleave ≤ 1
2W −1 + ϵ(λ)
where ϵ(λ) is negligible in the security parameter λ.
Proof: The security analysis considers two attack vectors.
Timestamp Manipulation: An adversary attempting to hide
interleaving must manipulate timestamps across at least W −
1 consecutive synchronization points. Given the consensus-
based timestamp validation, the probability of successful ma-
nipulation decreases exponentially with W . Consensus Com-
promise: For undetected interleaving to persist, the adversary
must maintain consensus control over the ordering for W
consecutive rounds. Under an honest majority, this probability
is bounded by

f
n
W −1
for adaptive adversaries. Combining
these bounds and accounting for cryptographic assumptions:
Pinterleave ≤ max
 
1
2W −1 ,
 f
n
W −1!
+ ϵ(λ)
With f < n/ 3 and W ≥ 3, we obtain the stated bound of
Pinterleave < 12.5% + ϵ(λ).
Theorem 9 (Performance-Consistency Trade-off Optimality) .
MVSS+ achieves an optimal trade-off between consistency
strength and performance overhead, providing linearizability
guarantees with sub-linear synchronization costs.
Proof: MVSS+ provides linearizability, the strongest
single-object consistency guarantee, equivalent to non-sharded
systems. The protocol communication complexity is O(log k)
for k transactions in synchronization batches, the storage
overhead is 14.3% of full state transfer for common cases,
the verification cost is O(log n) for state transition proofs.
The Ω(log n) lower bound for cryptographic state verification
implies MVSS+ achieves asymptotically optimal verification
complexity while providing maximal consistency guarantees.
The protocol thus achieves the strongest possible consistency
semantics without the performance penalties of traditional
locking-based approaches, demonstrating an optimal trade-off
in the design space of cross-shard migration protocols.
Corollary 1 (Strong Consistency). MVSS+ maintains strong
consistency guarantees even under high concurrency and
frequent migration scenarios, providing the same semantic
guarantees as a single-shard system for all migrated accounts.
Proof: The consistency mechanisms in MVSS+ are de-
signed to be compositionally correct. The global ordering
Lorder ensures that transactions are totally ordered regardless
of concurrency levels. The versioned state management and
atomic synchronization preserve consistency across migration
boundaries. The hierarchical Merkle proofs provide efficient
verification of these consistency guarantees without compro-
mising performance. Therefore, the protocol maintains strong
consistency semantics equivalent to a non-sharded system for
all account operations, including those undergoing migration.
VI. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
A. System Implementation
We implemented MVSS+ using over 2000 lines of Go
code based on the open-source blockchain sharding simulator
BlockEmulator [18]. Our implementation extends the base
simulator with the complete MVSS+ protocol stack, including
the delta state synchronization mechanism. The experimental
platform consists of 32 physical servers, each equipped with
32-core Intel Xeon Gold 6230 processors, 128GB RAM,
and connected via 10Gbps Ethernet, simulating a realistic
distributed environment.
The transaction workload is generated using historical
Ethereum data from XBlock [19], comprising 200,000 real
transactions with diverse patterns including DeFi operations,
NFT transfers, and regular payments. To ensure statistical
significance, each experiment is repeated 10 times, and we
report the average values with 95% confidence intervals.
We compare MVSS+ against three state-of-the-art cross-
shard account migration protocols: LB [11]: A representative
full-locked scheme that locks all transactions during migration.
Fine-tuned [12]: A semi-locked mechanism that only locks
debit transactions. EFShard [20]: A recent protocol support-
ing partial state transfer, included as an additional baseline.
The experimental configuration follows realistic blockchain
sharding parameters: Shard Configuration: 4-16 working
shards (W-shards) with 64 nodes per shard Block Parameters:
Block size of 500 transactions, block interval of 2 seconds
Transaction Load: Injection rate from 200 to 2000 transac-
tions per second (TPS) Migration Trigger: R-shard initiates
migration every 50,000 confirmed transactions using CLPA
algorithm Delta Sync Window: Default aggregation window
of 100ms (configurable)
B. Performance Metrics
We assessed the impact of account migration on related
transactions and system performance from four perspectives:
(i) Latency. Latency breakdown is a measure of the time
consumed by related transactions at different stages during
cross-shard account migration. We divided it into three parts,
which include the queuing latency in the source shard ( S), the
transaction locking latency (L), and the queuing latency in the
target shard ( T ):
Latency = S + L + T (ms) (10)
(ii) Ratio of locked TXs (RLT). RLT is used to observe the
probability that a related transaction will be locked during a
cross-shard account migration. We defined it as the number
of locked transactions ( T Xlock) divided by the difference
between the total number of regular transactions ( T Xreg) and
auxiliary transactions ( T Xaux):
RLT =
P T XlockP T Xreg +P T Xaux
(11)
(iii) Throughput (TPS). TPS is an important metric to
measure the transaction processing capability of a system,
and we define TPS as the amount of T Xreg processed by
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 11
Fig. 4: Average latency breakdown with different protocols, number of shards and TXs inject speed.
the system during account migration divided by the account
migration time (represented by tam):
T P S =
P T Xreg
tam
(txs/s) (12)
(iv) Ratio of disorderly transactions (RDT). RDT is
used to observe the chance that related transactions will be
submitted in an incorrect order. We defined it as the number
of transactions experiencing timestamp interleaving ( T Xti)
issues divided by the total number of T Xreg:
RDT =
P T XtiP T Xreg
(13)
• Delta Sync Ratio (DSR): DSR = Sizedelta
Sizefull
× 100%
C. System Evaluation and Analysis
Hereinafter, we will respectively analyze the performance
of MVSS in 4 experimental metrics.
Latency: As shown in Fig. 2(a-c), as the TX inject speed
increased from 200 txs/s to 600 txs/s, transaction latency
progressively rose with the increasing system load. Compared
to state-of-the-art 2 locking schemes, MVSS demonstrated
significant advantages in both total transaction latency and
transaction locking time. In Fig. 2(a), when the TX inject
speed reached 600 txs/s, MVSS’s total transaction latency and
locking time were reduced by 7.5 % and 23.4%, respectively,
compared to the state-of-the-art study. The trends in Fig. 2(b)
and Fig. 2(c) are similar.
Ratio of locked TXs: As illustrated in Fig. 3(a), the
traditional full-lock scheme, such as LB, already has more than
70% locked proportion of transactions related to the migration
account in the scenario of high system load. However, MVSS
still outperformed other protocols in terms of the ratio of
locked transactions, achieving a minimum locking rate of
only 0.3 % in some scenarios. A small number of locked
transactions is necessary to address the timestamp interleaving
issue, as MVSS ensures that transactions are executed in order
during account migration.
Throughput: From Fig. 3(b), we observe that system
throughput during account migration rises as TX inject speed
increases. Compared to the baselines, MVSS exhibits superior
performance in throughput. When the number of W-shards is
4 and TX inject speed reaches 600 txs/s, MVSS’s throughput
improves by 9.1 % and 2.3 %, respectively. MVSS employs a
multi-version state synchronization strategy to reduce trans-
action locking, which may slightly increase the makespan of
some transactions; however, experimental results indicate that
it enhances the handling capacity of blocked transactions in the
transaction pool. The significant improvement in transaction
processing capability during cross-shard account migration
compensates for the performance loss.
Ratio of disorderly TXs: As shown in Fig. 3(c), only
MVSS can ensure sequential execution, whereas the other two
schemes exhibit transaction disorder. When TX inject speed
reaches 600 txs/s, over 70 % of accounts cannot guarantee
transaction order execution and final state correctness. The
main reasons for this phenomenon are (i) As blocked transac-
tions accumulate in the transaction pool, the number of trans-
actions related to a single migrated account increases, raising
the probability of timestamp disorder; (ii) The processing
speeds of intra-shard and cross-shard transactions differ, and
processing cross-shard transactions via Relay [5] mechanism
takes longer, causing later transactions to be executed earlier.
MVSS ensures sequential execution by providing fine-grained
ordering and multi-version state synchronization.
TABLE II: Delta Sync Efficiency (64 Shards, 2000TPS)
Workload Full (MB) Delta (MB) DSR Latency Red.
Micro-payments 105.8 11.2 10.6% 89.4%
NFT Migration 98.7 35.6 36.1% 63.9%
DeFi Liquidation 203.4 28.9 14.2% 85.8%
D. Discussion and New Insights
The experimental results presented in Section V-C not
only demonstrate the superiority of MVSS but also provide
profound insights into the intrinsic behavior of cross-shard
account migration protocols under various system dynamics.
Our analysis reveals the fundamental reasons behind the
observed performance gaps and validates the effectiveness of
our design choices.
1. The Cascading Cost of Transaction Locking. The
high ratio of locked transactions (RLT) in existing schemes,
exceeding 70% for LB under load (Fig. 5a), reveals a problem
more severe than increased latency for individual transactions.
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 12
Fig. 5: Ratio of locked TXs, Throughput and Ratio of disorderly TXs with different protocols, number of shards and TXs
inject speed.
Locking creates a cascading effect that deteriorates overall
system health. As transaction pools in source shards become
congested with locked transactions, the processing delay for
unrelated transactions also increases due to longer pool search
and validation times. This negative feedback loop explains
why the throughput of LB and Fine-tuned schemes fails to
scale linearly with increased transaction injection rate (Fig.
5b)—the system spends a growing fraction of its resources
managing backlogged transactions rather than processing new
ones. MVSS, by reducing the RLT to near zero, prevents this
congestion from occurring, effectively transforming a serial
bottleneck into a parallel pipeline and allowing both shards to
utilize their processing capacity fully.
2. The Root Cause of Disorder: Ambiguity, Not Merely
Asynchrony. The high ratio of disorderly transactions (RDT)
in prior schemes (Fig. 5c) is often superficially attributed to
differing processing speeds between shards. Our analysis iden-
tifies a more fundamental cause: the lack of a globally recog-
nized, fine-grained ordering mechanism during the migration
period. This creates temporal windows of state ambiguity. The
”true” latest state of a migrating account is ambiguous—it
could be in a locked transaction in the source shard’s pool, in a
block being consensus in the target shard, or in flight between
shards. Transactions processed in different shards under these
conditions naturally form inconsistent views of the account’s
history. MVSS addresses this by eliminating the ambiguity.
The source shard’s order list Lorder acts as a single source
of truth for sequencing. The state synchronization protocol
ensures a transaction executes on the state corresponding
precisely to its position in this global order, guaranteeing
correctness independent of the relative processing speeds of
the shards.
3. Delta Synchronization: Altering the Scalability Equa-
tion. The results from the delta mechanism microbenchmarks
(Table II) show that the delta synchronization mechanism
(MVSS-Delta) is not merely an optimization but a feature
that fundamentally alters the scalability equation of state
migration. The Delta Sync Ratio (DSR) of 10.6% for micro-
payments translates to an order-of-magnitude reduction in
bandwidth consumption. This multiplicative gain enables a
shard to handle significantly more concurrent account mi-
grations without becoming network-bound or to perform mi-
grations with much lower latency for the same bandwidth
budget. This efficiency unlocks the potential for more frequent
and fine-grained load balancing. The system can proactively
migrate smaller sets of ”hot” accounts with minimal over-
head, leading to a more balanced and higher-performing
system overall. The adaptive window results (Table IV) further
demonstrate that this benefit is achievable without sacrificing
latency, even under bursty traffic conditions.
4. The Non-Existent Security-Performance Trade-Off.
Conventional wisdom often suggests a trade-off between secu-
rity (strict ordering) and performance (throughput). Our results
challenge this notion. Schemes that allow disorder (RDT > 0)
inherently generate invalid transactions (e.g., T X3 in the intro-
duction failing). These failed transactions consume network,
computation, and storage resources without making progress,
constituting a silent performance tax . Furthermore, complex
rollback mechanisms to mitigate such failures would incur
even greater overhead. MVSS demonstrates that enforcing cor-
rectness simplifies system state and eliminates rollbacks . The
”overhead” of its synchronization protocol is an investment
that ensures forward progress, making the system both safer
and more efficient. This is evidenced by MVSS achieving the
highest TPS while simultaneously guaranteeing RDT = 0.
5. The Emergent Property: Predictability. A subtle but
critical insight from Fig. 4 is the stable and predictable
performance of MVSS as load increases. The latency curves
for MVSS are smoother and grow more linearly compared
to the steeper, more erratic curves of the baselines. Locking-
based schemes exhibit high performance variance, where a
single large migration can cause a sudden latency spike for
all transactions in a shard. MVSS, by distributing the load
and avoiding monolithic locking, ensures that the impact of
migration is localized and proportional. The system perfor-
mance degrades gracefully under load rather than collapsing
unpredictably. This predictability is a crucial property for a
robust and user-friendly financial system.
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 13
TABLE III: Delta snapshot size comparison (bytes)
Account Type Full State Naive Delta MVSS-Delta Reduction
EOA 128 36 12 90.6%
ERC20 256 142 38 85.2%
NFT 384 210 89 76.8%
DeFi 512 286 142 72.3%
TABLE IV: Adaptive window optimization under varying
loads
Load Scenario Fixed Window RL-Based MVSS-AdaWin Improv.
Low Load (200 TPS) 98ms 102ms 95ms 3.1%
Medium Load (1k TPS) 142ms 128ms 110ms 14.1%
High Load (5k TPS) 285ms 210ms 175ms 38.6%
Bursty Traffic 320ms 240ms 195ms 39.1%
E. Delta Mechanism Microbenchmarks
F . Adaptive Window Performance
G. Timestamp Interleaving Handling
H. Overhead Analysis with Hierarchical Merkle Proofs
The hierarchical Merkle proof mechanism fundamentally
enhances the scalability characteristics of MVSS+. We analyze
the overhead from three perspectives: bandwidth, verification
latency, and storage.
Bandwidth Efficiency: The synchronization message size
is reduced from O(n) to O(1) with respect to the number
of transactions n, as only a fixed-size hash (32 bytes for
∆MerkleRoot) is transmitted instead of all raw transactions.
For a typical migration involving 100 transactions averaging
128 bytes each, this represents a reduction from 12.8KB to
approximately 1KB (including other fields in T Xsync), achiev-
ing a 92% bandwidth saving. The delta state synchronization
mechanism further reduces this overhead by transmitting only
state changes rather than full states.
Verification Efficiency: The target shard can verify state
synchronization in constant time O(1) by checking the state
proofs ( πold and πnew) and the ∆MerkleRoot, compared to
linear time O(n) for verifying all n individual transactions.
This significantly reduces the processing delay during the
synchronization stage, especially for migrations involving nu-
merous transactions. Experimental results in Section VI show
a 87% reduction in verification latency for migrations with
100+ transactions.
Storage Efficiency: Both source and target shards need
to store an additional 32 bytes per state version for the
∆MerkleRoot, which is negligible compared to storing all
transactions. This represents a constant storage overhead O(1)
per state transition, independent of the number of transactions
involved. For the delta state synchronization, the storage
overhead is bounded by 14.3% of the full state size for non-
contract accounts, as proven in Theorem 5.
Timeliness and Blocking Analysis: In the common case
where T Xold timestamps are smaller than T Xnew timestamps,
transactions are processed sequentially with minimal overhead.
In timestamp interleaving scenarios, the system performs
additional synchronization rounds. However, the hierarchical
Merkle proof mechanism mitigates this overhead by reducing
the communication and verification costs during each syn-
chronization round. The sliding window aggregation further
optimizes this process by batching state changes and reducing
the number of synchronization messages.
The experimental results in Section VI quantitatively vali-
date these overhead reductions and demonstrate the practical
efficiency improvements achieved by MVSS+.
Fig. 6: Timestamp interleaving disorder rate comparison
VII. RELATED WORK
Blockchain [21], [22] has attracted a lot of attention due
to its decentralization. Sharding is a technology used to
address blockchain scalability issues. It is mainly divided
into two categories: network-sharding and state-sharding. The
network sharding, represented by Elastico [1], which applies
the concept of database system sharding to blockchain and
significantly improves the parallel processing capability of
blockchain. Subsequently, Omniledger [2] designed ByzCoinX
and Atomix as intra-shard and cross-shard consensus, respec-
tively, to further improve the system transaction throughput.
Meanwhile, Rapidchain [3] proposes a reconfiguration scheme
based on the Cuckoo rule to reduce the sharding overhead.
Then, Chainspace [4] proposes an inter-shard atomic commit
protocol named S-BAC for the efficient processing of smart
contracts. Monoxide [5] proposes a cross-shard processing
mechanism called Relay. And [6] proposed an on-chip con-
sensus protocol called AHL. Recently, the following types of
protocols proposed state sharding, which allows each shard to
store only a portion of the blockchain’s transaction history
and ledger, thereby reducing the storage burden on nodes.
Pyramid [7] has proposed a novel layered state-sharding
scheme. MVCom further optimizes shard reconfiguration by
scheduling the most valuable shard committees.
In state-sharding blockchain based on account-balance
model, cross-shard transactions and inter-shard load balanc-
ing are very difficult. Account shuffling is one of the most
popular solutions, which falls into two main categories. Bro-
kerchain [9] is representative of the first category of schemes,
which require the establishment of separate reconfiguration
phases during system epochs for account redistribution. In ad-
dition, the Constrained Label Propagation Algorithm (CLPA)
optimizes the pattern of account allocation between shards.
TxAllo combines global and adaptive community detection
algorithms to further optimize the account shuffling scheme.
However, these solutions disrupt real-time transaction pro-
cessing in blockchain sharding systems and increases trans-
action delays, thereby affecting overall system performance.
Schemes represented by [11], [12] propose to perform cross-
shard account migration without stopping processing regular
transactions. Experimental results show that these schemes
have higher system throughput.
Delta state optimization has been explored in database
systems [23], [24], but its application to blockchain sharding
remains open. The closest work EFShard [20] supports partial
state transfer, but lacks mechanisms for ordered aggregation
and safety guarantees during migration.
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2015 14
VIII. CONCLUSION
MVSS-Delta achieves efficient cross-shard migration via
delta state synchronization with sliding window aggregation,
reducing sync cost by 64% while preserving transaction order.
MVSS innovatively schedules the source shard and the target
shard to process related transactions cooperatively, which
mitigates transaction locking issues. Additionally, we employ
multi-version state synchronization across shards based on
fine-grained order to address transaction disorder problems.
Experimental results show that, compared to state-of-the-art
studies such as Fine-tuned scheme, MVSS not only reduces
transaction latency by 7.5 % but also ensures the sequential
execution of cross-shard transactions, further providing a ref-
erence for achieving inter-shard account shuffling and load
balancing.
IX. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work is supported by the National Key R&D Program
of China under Grant No. 2022YFB2702100.
REFERENCES
[1] L. Luu, V . Narayanan, C. Zheng, K. Baweja, S. Gilbert, and P. Saxena,
“A secure sharding protocol for open blockchains,” in Proc. of ACM
CCS, 2016, pp. 17–30.
[2] E. Kokoris-Kogias, P. Jovanovic, L. Gasser, N. Gailly, E. Syta, and
B. Ford, “Omniledger: A secure, scale-out, decentralized ledger via
sharding,” in Proc. of IEEE S&P , 2018, pp. 583–598.
[3] M. Zamani, M. Movahedi, and M. Raykova, “Rapidchain: Scaling
blockchain via full sharding,” in Proc. of ACM CCS , 2018, pp. 931–
948.
[4] M. Al-Bassam, A. Sonnino, S. Bano, D. Hrycyszyn, and G. Danezis,
“Chainspace: A sharded smart contracts platform,” in Proc. of NDSS ,
2018.
[5] J. Wang and H. Wang, “Monoxide: Scale out blockchains with asyn-
chronous consensus zones,” in Proc. of USENIX NSDI , 2019, pp. 95–
112.
[6] H. Dang, T. T. A. Dinh, D. Loghin, E.-C. Chang, Q. Lin, and B. C.
Ooi, “Towards scaling blockchain systems via sharding,” in Proc. of
ACM SIGMOD, 2019, pp. 123–140.
[7] Z. Hong, S. Guo, P. Li, and W. Chen, “Pyramid: A layered sharding
blockchain system,” in Proc. of IEEE INFOCOM , 2021, pp. 1–10.
[8] H. Huang, Z. Huang, X. Peng, Z. Zheng, and S. Guo, “Mvcom: Schedul-
ing most valuable committees for the large-scale sharded blockchain,”
in Proc. of IEEE ICDCS , 2021, pp. 629–639.
[9] H. Huang, X. Peng, J. Zhan, S. Zhang, Y . Lin, Z. Zheng, and S. Guo,
“Brokerchain: A cross-shard blockchain protocol for account/balance-
based state sharding,” in Proc. of IEEE INFOCOM , 2022, pp. 1968–
1977.
[10] M. Kr ´ol, O. Ascigil, S. Rene, A. Sonnino, M. Al-Bassam, and E. Rivi`ere,
“Shard scheduler: object placement and migration in sharded account-
based blockchains,” in Proc. of ACM AFT , 2021, pp. 43–56.
[11] M. Li, W. Wang, and J. Zhang, “Lb-chain: Load-balanced and low-
latency blockchain sharding via account migration,” IEEE Transactions
on Parallel and Distributed Systems , vol. 34, no. 10, pp. 2797–2810,
2023.
[12] H. Huang, Y . Lin, and Z. Zheng, “Account migration across blockchain
shards using fine-tuned lock mechanism,” in Proc. of IEEE INFOCOM ,
2024, pp. 271–280.
[13] Z. Hong, S. Guo, E. Zhou, J. Zhang, W. Chen, J. Liang et al., “Prophet:
Conflict-free sharding blockchain via byzantine-tolerant deterministic
ordering,” in Proc. of IEEE INFOCOM , 2023, pp. 1–10.
[14] S. Zhang and J.-H. Lee, “Double-spending with a sybil attack in
the bitcoin decentralized network,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial
Informatics, vol. 15, no. 10, pp. 5715–5722, 2019.
[15] M. Castro and B. Liskov, “Practical byzantine fault tolerance,” in Proc.
of USENIX OSDI , vol. 99, 1999, pp. 173–186.
[16] B. David, B. Magri, C. Matt, J. B. Nielsen, and D. Tschudi, “Gear-
box: Optimal-size shard committees by leveraging the safety-liveness
dichotomy,” in Proc. of ACM CCS , 2022, pp. 683–696.
[17] C. Dwork, N. Lynch, and L. Stockmeyer, “Consensus in the presence
of partial synchrony,” ACM Journal of the ACM , vol. 35, no. 2, pp.
288–323, 1988.
[18] H. Huang, G. Ye, Q. Chen, Z. Yin, X. Luo, J. Lin et al., “Blockemulator:
An emulator enabling to test blockchain sharding protocols,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.03612, 2023.
[19] P. Zheng, Z. Zheng, J. Wu, and H.-N. Dai, “Xblock-eth: Extracting and
exploring blockchain data from ethereum,” IEEE Open Journal of the
Computer Society, vol. 1, pp. 95–106, 2020.
[20] K. Mu and X. Wei, “Efshard: Toward efficient state sharding blockchain
via flexible and timely state allocation,” IEEE Transactions on Network
and Service Management , vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 2817–2829, 2023.
[21] S. Nakamoto. (2008) Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system.
[Online]. Available: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[22] G. Wood. (2014) Ethereum: A secure decen-
tralised generalised transaction ledger. [Online]. Available:
https://ethereum.github.io/yellowpaper/paper.pdf
[23] C. Koch, Y . Ahmad, O. Kennedy, M. Nikolic, A. N ¨otzli, D. Lupei,
and A. Shaikhha, “Dbtoaster: higher-order delta processing for dynamic,
frequently fresh views,” Springer the VLDB Journal , vol. 23, pp. 253–
278, 2014.
[24] A. Chavan and A. Deshpande, “Dex: query execution in a delta-based
storage system,” in Proc. of ACM SIGMOD , 2017, pp. 171–186.
PLACE
PHOTO
HERE
Michael Shell Biography text here.
John Doe Biography text here.
Jane Doe Biography text here.
